2020-BCFP-0010 Document1 Filed 08/31/2020 Page 1 of 35

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP- 0010

 

In the Matter of:
CONSENT ORDER
TRANS-FAST REMITTANCE LLC,

also doing business as NEW YORK
BAY REMITTANCE

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
Remittance Transfer activities of Trans-Fast Remittance LLC, also doing business
as New York Bay Remittance (Respondent, as defined below) and has identified
the following law violations: violating the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA),
15 U.S.C. § 1693 et seg., and the Remittance Rule, which implements § 919 of
EFTA, 12 C.F.R. Part 1005, Subpart B, by failing to adhere to error resolution
requirements and properly respond to cancellation requests, failing to provide
refunds the Remittance Rule requires, failing to maintain required policies and
procedures, and failing to provide required disclosures; and engaging in deceptive
acts or practices in violation of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010

(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536, by making misleading statements in
advertisements regarding the speed of its Remittance Transfers, and making
misleading statements in disclosures purporting to limit consumers’ error
resolution rights. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565,
the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).
I.
Jurisdiction
1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the

CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563 and 5565, and § 918 of the EFTA, 15 U.S.C.

§ 16930.
I.
Stipulation
2. Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a

Consent Order,” dated August 21, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under

§§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting
or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction

over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.
HI.
Definitions
3. The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Board” means Respondent’s duly-elected and acting Board of Directors.

b. “Clearly and Conspicuously” means readily understandable and, in the
case of written and electronic disclosures, the location and type size are
readily noticeable to senders, and in the case of oral disclosures, they are
given at a volume and speed sufficient for a sender to hear and
comprehend them.

c. “Consumer Financial Product or Service” is synonymous in meaning and
equal in scope to the definition of the term in section 1002(5) of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), and, subject to applicable restrictions

contained in the CFPA, includes, but is not limited to:

i. the engaging in deposit-taking activities, transmitting or
exchanging funds, or otherwise acting as a custodian of funds or

any financial instrument for use by or on behalf of a consumer, or

ll. providing payments or other financial data processing products or
services to a consumer by any technological means, including
processing or storing financial or banking data for any payment

instrument, or through any payments systems or network used for
ARAN PERE ARAS =
POSO-BOER.OO10 Macy
ESP wf

athe A A

: ‘ LAO Pes PMO ey me

i se OL ASF
Po RGA ke

Bott
fe
oD
Se.
ad
or
Neda!
03

~
OO PAA

atk ob AS

processing payments data, including payments made through an

online banking system or mobile telecommunications network.
“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.
“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or
her delegate.
“Provider” has the same meaning as “Remittance Transfer Provider.”
“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on substantially
the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent Order.
“Remittance Transfer” and “Remittance Transfer Provider” have the
meanings given to those terms under the Remittance Rule.
“Respondent” means Trans-Fast Remittance LLC, also doing business as
New York Bay Remittance, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Trans-
Fast Remittance Inc., and Trans-Fast Remittance Nevada, Inc. and their

successors and assigns.

‘Service Provider” means any person that provides a material service to a
covered person, in connection with the offering or provision by such

covered person of a Consumer Financial Product or Service, including a
ARAN PERE ARAS =
POSO-BOER.OO10 Macy
mt wf

athe A A

Tae (APR AN a)

i se OG :
Poa La

Pe
sae

wo}
oD
ed!
very,
Neda!
03

~
OO PAA

atk ob AS

person that—(1) participates in designing, operating, or maintaining the
Consumer Financial Product or Service; or (11) processes transactions
relating to the Consumer Financial Product or Service (other than
unknowingly or incidentally transmitting or processing financial data in a
manner that such data is undifferentiated from other types of data of the
same form as the person transmits or processes). “Service Provider”
does not include a person solely by virtue of such person offering or
providing to a covered person—(i1) a support service of a type provided
to businesses generally or a similar ministerial service; or (11) time or
space for an advertisement for a Consumer Financial Product or Service
through print, newspaper, or electronic media.

IV.

Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Until approximately June 15, 2020, Respondent was a non-bank Remittance
Transfer Provider with its principal place of business in New York, New
York. Among other activities, Respondent provided international money
transfers, including Remittance Transfers.

Respondent is licensed in over 30 states and sent Remittance Transfers from

the United States to recipients in over 100 countries. Until approximately
June 15, 2020, Respondent provided Remittance Transfers at storefront
locations independently owned and operated by about 3,000 individual
agents located in storefronts across the country. Until about February 2020,
Respondent also provided Remittance Transfers over the internet and
through mobile applications.

Respondent is a “covered person” under the CFPA because it offered or
provided electronic-funds-transmission services and payment services. 12
U.S.C. § 5481(6), (15 )(A)iv), (15 (A)(vii).

Respondent is a Remittance Transfer Provider under EFTA because it
provided Remittance Transfers for consumers in the normal course of its
business. 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(g)(3).

In 2010, EFTA was amended to create a new § 919 of the EFTA. Section
919 requires Remittance Transfer Providers to provide disclosures to senders
of Remittance Transfers, pursuant to rules prescribed by the Bureau, and
also provides for specific cancellation, refund, and error resolution
procedures.

The Bureau issued rules to implement these requirements, which became
effective on October 28, 2013. These rules are known as the Remittance

Rule.
10.

11.

Since the October 28, 2013 effective date of the Remittance Rule,
Respondent has been subject to the requirements of § 919 of EFTA and the
Remittance Rule.

As described below, Respondent violated many of the Remittance Rule’s
cancellation, refund, disclosure and error-resolution requirements and

engaged in deceptive acts or practices in providing Remittance Transfers.

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of EFTA and the Remittance Rule

12.

13.

14.

Respondent failed to process cancellation requests
in violation of the Remittance Rule

A Remittance Transfer Provider must “comply with the requirements of

§ 1005.34 with respect to any oral or written request to cancel a Remittance
Transfer from the sender” that provides certain required information and is
received within the Remittance Rule’s cancellation timeframe requirements.
12 C.F.R. § 1005.34(a).

A Remittance Transfer Provider must provide a refund within three business
days of receipt of a timely cancellation request. 12 C.F.R. § 1005.34(b).
Since the October 28, 2013 effective date of the Remittance Rule through at
least August 2019, Respondent’s practice was to require consumers who
initiated a Remittance Transfer at a storefront with one of its agents to

request cancellation only through that same agent.
15.

16.

17.

Since the October 28, 2013 effective date of the Remittance Rule through at
least August 2019, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.34(a) by failing to
accept valid cancellation requests via telephone and provide the requisite
refunds.

Respondent failed to resolve errors
in violation of EFTA and the Remittance Rule

If a consumer asserts an error consistent with the process required by the

Remittance Rule, the Remittance Rule and EFTA require Remittance

Transfer Providers to “investigate promptly and determine whether an error

occurred within 90 days of the assertion of an error.” 12 C.F.R. §

1005.33(c)(1); see also 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(d)(1)(A).

The Remittance Rule broadly establishes five categories of errors, subject to

enumerated exceptions:

a. The consumer pays an incorrect amount to send the Remittance Transfer;

b. The Remittance Transfer Provider makes a computational or
bookkeeping error;

c. The amount disclosed is not made available to the recipient;

d. The transferred funds are not available to the recipient on the date
disclosed; and

e. The consumer requests information or documentation. 12 C.F.R.

§ 1005.33(a)(1).
18.

19.

20.

21.

If an error occurred, a Remittance Transfer Provider must then follow the
Remittance Rule’s procedures for remedying the error, which may include a
refund of the Remittance Transfer, including fees.

Since the October 28, 2013 effective date of the Remittance Rule through at
least August 2019, Respondent did not identify errors under the Remittance
Rule and had no policies or procedures related to how to investigate and
respond to notices of error.

In addition, when a consumer called Respondent with a complaint about a
Remittance Transfer, Respondent only provided information over the phone
in response to that complaint and did not take any other action in response to
that complaint. Ifa consumer called and alleged an error that Respondent
could not appropriately resolve under the Remittance Rule by providing
information, Respondent did not process the consumer’s request. Instead,
Respondent required the consumer to contact the agent at the storefront at
which the transfer was originated.

Respondent frequently failed to investigate and determine whether a
Remittance Rule error occurred after consumers asserted errors and failed to
follow the Remittance Rule’s error resolution procedures for any error

asserted over the phone that would have required responsive action, like
22.

APN POA AM am ~ - 4 pues OO Ee
AHO Beem Ann RPhaciirnant 4 Pian QRIa4fanen
Sa tet : RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS Pre EAP EAS

providing refunds, resending transfers, or correcting an incorrect transfer
amount.

Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(c)(1) and 15 U.S.C. § 16930-
1(d)(1)(A) in cases when consumers properly notified Respondent and

Respondent failed to investigate and determine whether an error occurred.

Respondent failed to refund fees for date of availability errors in violation of

23.

24.

25.

EFTA and the Remittance Rule
Under § 1005.33(a) of the Remittance Rule, it is generally an “error” if a
Remittance Transfer Provider fails to make funds available to a designated
recipient by the date of availability stated in the receipt or disclosure that the
Provider must provide to a sender. 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(a).
If a consumer appropriately asserts a date of availability error consistent
with the rule’s requirements, § 1005.33(c)(2)(1)(B) requires a Remittance
Transfer Provider to refund the fees imposed on the Remittance Transfer
when the Provider fails to make the funds available to the recipient by the
date of availability identified in the transfer receipt. 12 C.F.R.
§ 1005.33(c)(2)(ii)(B).
Respondent’s practice was to not refund fees to consumers if the transfer
was already received, even if the transfer was received after the date

disclosed on the receipt. But the Remittance Rule required Respondent to
26.

27.

28.

29.

AMAA RRR Aas Pe aunt A Prey At PL FO a PA anew an AO 5a
AAO OSE BAA Mie issycinmt 4 Plan ORF toe Dian Ft At RA
Sa tet RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS Air PP eo ea 5 ake oF ob Aad Pit

refund fees imposed on the transfer if the transfer occurred after the date
disclosed, regardless of whether the transfer was ultimately received.
When the consumer properly asserted a date of availability error and no
applicable exclusion applied, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R.

§ 1005.33(c)(2)(G1)(B) when it did not provide refunds of fees to consumers

when the transfer was received after the date disclosed.

Respondent failed to develop and maintain written policies and procedures
designed to ensure compliance with error resolution requirements of the

Remittance Rule
A Remittance Transfer Provider must develop and maintain written policies
and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the Remittance Rule’s
error resolution requirements, including 12 C.F.R. $$ 1005.33(c)(1), (c)(2),
or (d)(1). 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(g)(1).
For example, Remittance Transfer Providers must investigate promptly and
determine whether an error occurred within 90 days of receiving a notice of
error. They further must provide to Remittance Transfer senders a written
explanation of the Provider’s findings and note the sender’s right to request
the documents on which the Provider relied in making its determination if no
error was found. 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(c)(1) and (d)(1).
Since the October 28, 2013 effective date of the Remittance Rule and

through at least 2019, Respondent had not developed or maintained written
30.

31.

32.

33.

RRA PE ~ . A pans » ow coe ae
SAHOO Berm ANA Mise csscint 4 Clan ORF 4 Fane
ee eh feet ore beat oF rae POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pere’ epey se NOP eet ree e
on at ot Pt te AEN Ed YESS Pe PP eA eA

policies and procedures necessary to ensure compliance with §§
1005.33(c)(1), (c)(2), or (d)(1).
Respondent therefore violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(g)(1).

Respondent failed to provide required disclosures
in violation of EFTA and the Remittance Rule

The Remittance Rule requires Remittance Transfer Providers to make
specific disclosures to every consumer. 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31.

The Remittance Rule requires Remittance Transfer Providers to disclose
“the date in the foreign country on which funds will be available to the
designated recipient, using the term ‘Date Available’ or a substantially
similar term.” 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31(b)(2)(i1). Remittance Transfer Providers
may provide a statement that funds may be available to the recipient earlier
than the date disclosed, using the term “may be available sooner” or a
substantially similar term. /d.

The electronic disclosures Respondent provided to consumers initiating
online Remittance Transfers used the term “Estimated Delivery” to
characterize the date of availability. Providing an “estimate” of the date of
availability does not comply with the Remittance Rule. Respondent provided
about 180,000 disclosures using the “Estimated Delivery” language in 2019

alone.
34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

APN PEE A ~ . og a . IN A EP
8OOOWR CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe
Ba Sf tn ST et ; BA AEN Pa PPA Pe PP eA eA

The Remittance Rule requires Remittance Transfer Providers to disclose any
fees collected on the Remittance Transfer using the term “Transfer Fees” or
a “substantially similar term.” 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31(b)(1)qi).

For transfers initiated through Respondent’s agents at storefronts, customers
were provided with a disclosure listing four different kinds of fees: “Service
fee,” “Fee Rate,” “Handling fee,” (or “Handling,”) and “Discount.” Since
the October 28, 2013 effective date of the Remittance Rule and through at
least 2019, Respondents provided about 40 million disclosures containing
these terms.

Those terms are not substantially similar to the term “Transfer Fees,” and are
not otherwise permissible under the Remittance Rule.

The EFTA requires a Remittance Transfer Provider to disclose a statement
containing “information about the rights of the sender under this section
regarding the resolution of errors.” 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(a)(2)B(i)(1). The
EFTA also established certain error and cancellation rights and certain
remedies available to senders. 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(d)(1)(A) & (B).

The Remittance Rule requires Remittance Transfer Providers to disclose to a
sender “‘a statement about the rights of the sender regarding the resolution of

errors and cancellation, using language set forth in Model Form A-37 of
39.

40.

4).

NPN PPR EA AMA ~ toa pues , AY A IAA
SOA BCE BAI Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan ORF toe
Ba Sf tn ST et : BHAA Ed PPA Pe PP eA eA

Appendix A to this part or substantially similar language.” 12 C.F.R.

§ 1005.3 1(b)(2)(iv).

Respondent did not provide a “statement about the rights of the sender” in a
form substantially similar to the Model Form A-37 language. Instead, the
receipt and disclosure Respondent provided to consumers contained
“conditions of service” that included nearly a page of conditions not found
in the Model Form A-37. Those “conditions of service” did not state that
senders “have a right to dispute errors in your transaction” or request a
written statement of rights, which are provisions contained in Model Form
A-37.

Since the October 28, 2013 effective date of the Remittance Rule,
Respondent provided about 40 million disclosures containing these terms to
consumers.

Respondent therefore violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31 when it (1) disclosed an
“Estimated Delivery” for the funds; (2) failed to appropriately disclose
transfer fees; and (3) provided inaccurate information about the rights of the

sender under EFTA.
APA PE ORE RE A om PU aa aun Rh FS Fe EO ek Pe ew OE Lar
eOSO.RCERELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad G8 /3¢7feoeo Pane Ta of BS
than Sad an at Rad Nat : BHAA Ed york Nat wat PP a : ghee bar Geb what

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of the CFPA

Deceptive acts or practices by making misleading statements in advertisements

42.

43.

44,

45.

46.

47.

regarding the speed of its Remittance Transfers
When offering one of its Remittance Transfer services, Respondent
represented that they provided “an instant to 24-hour delivery.” In
advertisements for its Remittance Transfer services generally, Respondent
advertised an “instant transfer,” or a transfer “within minutes.”
But Respondent did not provide Remittance Transfers within the advertised
timeframes.
Section 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits “unfair, deceptive, or abusive”
acts or practices. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(B).
As described in Paragraph 42, in connection with the advertising, marketing,
promoting, offering for sale, or sale of its Remittance Transfer services, in
numerous instances, Respondent has represented, expressly or impliedly,
that the services had “an instant to 24-hour delivery,” would provide an
“instant transfer,” or a transfer “within minutes.”
In fact, Respondent did not provide Remittance Transfers within the
advertised timeframes.
Thus, Respondent’s representations, as described in Paragraph 42, constitute
deceptive acts or practices in violation of sections 1031(a) and 1036(a)(1)(B)

of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)\(B).
48.

49.

50.

RRA PE ~ . A pas y » ow Soe ae
SAHOO Berm ANA Mise csscint 4 Clan ORF 4 Fane
eee eh bathe ome ew a de bd b POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pere’ epey se NOP eet ree e
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YESS Pe PP eA eA

Deceptive acts or practices by making misleading statements in disclosures

purporting to limit consumers’ error resolution rights
When consumers purchased Respondent’s Remittance Transfer services,
Respondent provided to the consumer a disclosure and receipt that included
statements that:
a. Error notices consumers submitted after 90 days would be accepted at
Respondent’s “option”; and
b. Respondent “assumes no obligation except as stipulated herein” and “will
not be responsible for non-performance or loss due to circumstances
beyond our control.”
But EFTA and the Remittance Rule require Remittance Transfer Providers,
including Respondent, to investigate and remedy errors when consumers
provide an error notice within 180 days of the promised date of delivery, not
the 90 days Respondent stated. 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(d)(1)(A); 12 C.F.R.
§ 1005.33(b)(1)(i).
The Remittance Rule also provides that Remittance Transfer Providers,
including Respondent, are liable for errors, including acts of agents when
such agent acts for the Provider. This means that, contrary to Respondent’s
statement, Respondent may have been responsible for non-performance or
loss due to circumstances beyond its control or beyond the circumstances

stated in its disclosures.
SI.

52.

53.

54.

APA ROR A ot PN as mut A Rh FS Fe EO ek Roe ATP WE
eOSO.RCERELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad G8 /3¢7feoeo Pane Ty of 3s
than Sad an at Rad Nat : BA AEN Pa PO oPyo Ae Nat wat PP a : Lege OF Fk Wet

Section 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits “unfair, deceptive, or abusive”
acts or practices. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(B).

As described in Paragraph 48, in connection with the advertising, marketing,
promoting, offering for sale, or sale of its Remittance Transfer services, in
numerous instances, Respondent has represented, expressly or impliedly,
that error notices consumers submitted after 90 days would be accepted at
Respondent’s “option,” and that Respondent “assumes no obligation except
as stipulated herein” and “will not be responsible for non-performance or
loss due to circumstances beyond our control.”

In fact, EFTA and the Remittance Rule require Remittance Transfer
Providers, including Respondent, to investigate and remedy errors when
consumers provide an error notice within 180 days of the promised date of
delivery, and the Remittance Rule also provides that Remittance Transfer
Providers, including Respondent, are liable for errors, including acts of
agents when such agent acts for the Provider.

Respondent’s misrepresentations about the acceptance of error notices were
likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances and
were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of

consumers.
55.

56.

PAE PI PREP A »~ toa pug re ar ry re ox ae ye
2OOH Be RAGA Mie issycinmt 4 Pian QRIa4fanen Rane TR AF RA
Sao Te WAS Pd BASLE EER PER Od POPS ASQ a PP ole oA BAS Let we

Thus, Respondent’s representations, as described in Paragraph 48, constitute
deceptive acts or practices in violation of sections 1031(a) and 1036(a)(1)(B)
of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

V.
Compliance with EFTA, the Remittance Rule and the CFPA

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, may not violate 15 U.S.C. § 16930, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.31,

1005.33, and 1005.34, and, in connection with the advertising, marketing,

promotion, offering for sale, sale, or performance of Remittance Transfer

services, must take the following affirmative actions:

a. Comply with the requirements of 12 C.F.R. § 1005.34 with respect to any
oral or written request to cancel a Remittance Transfer from the sender
that provides certain required information and is received within the
Remittance Rule’s cancellation timeframe requirements;

b. Investigate and determine whether an error occurred within 90 days of
the assertion of an error, 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(c)(1); see also 15 U.S.C.

§ 16930-1(d)(1)(A):
57.

AMAA RRR Aas Pe aunt A Prey At PL FO a PA Panwa AS 5a
eOSO.RCERELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad G8 /3¢7feoeo Pane TQ of 348
Ba Sf tn ST et : BHAA Ed PoP Atte PP ee : phe Par Leb wie

c. Provide refunds consistent with the requirements of 12 C.F.R.

§ 1005.33(c)(2)i1)(B), including by providing refunds of fees to
consumers when the transfer was received after the date disclosed;

d. Develop, implement, and maintain written policies and procedures
designed to ensure compliance with the Remittance Rule;

e. Maintain a compliance-management system designed to ensure that
Respondents’ Remittance Transfer operations comply with the
Remittance Rule, including conducting training and oversight of all
agents, employees, and Service Providers that is designed to ensure
compliance with the Remittance Rule; and

f. Clearly and Conspicuously disclose the information required under 12
C.F.R. § 1005.31.

Respondent, and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, may not violate sections 1031 and 1036 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C.

§§ 5531 and 5536, and in connection with the advertising, marketing,

promotion, offering for sale, sale, or performance of Remittance Transfer
services, may not misrepresent, or assist others in misrepresenting, expressly

or impliedly:
58.

APN POA AM am ~ - 4 pues OO Ee
AHO Beem Ann RPhaciirnant 4 Pian QRIa4fanen
Sa tet : RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS Pre EAP EAS

a. The timing of its Remittance Transfers, including that its services have
“an instant to 24-hour delivery,” would provide an “instant transfer,” or a
transfer “within minutes;”

b. The timeframe for submitting error notices, including that error notices
consumers submitted after 90 days are accepted at Respondent’s
“option;”

c. Respondent’s rights and liabilities under EFTA and the Remittance Rule,
including that Respondent “‘assumes no obligation except as stipulated
herein” and “‘will not be responsible for non-performance or loss due to
circumstances beyond our control;” and

d. Any other fact material to consumers, such as: the total costs; any
material restrictions, limitations, or conditions.

VI.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

If, as of the Effective Date, Respondent provides Remittance Transfer
services, then within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit
to the Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s

Remittance Transfer acts and practices comply with all applicable Federal
59.

60.

SAAA MAP RA Aa PV, ut ow PP Pe a POT ee ioe MH ALOE
eOSO.RCERELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilacd GRP Toon Baan Of af 34
Ba Sf tn ST et : RPA TAS Pd Sobek Nott wot FP a ee 5 Rede ge POM ae

consumer financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance
Plan). The Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum, detailed steps for
addressing each action required by this Consent Order and specific
timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps described above,
as well as detail how respondent will implement and maintain policies and
procedures and conduct training and oversight that is reasonably designed to
ensure compliance with the Remittance Rule.

If, as of the Effective Date, Respondent does not provide Remittance
Transfer services, and then subsequently resumes providing Remittance
Transfer services, Respondent must, 60 days prior to resuming such
business, provide the Bureau with written notice that it intends to resume
providing Remittance Transfer services and simultaneously submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection the
Compliance Plan described in Paragraph 58.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to

the Enforcement Director within 30 days.
61.

62.

63.

64.

NPN PPR EA AMA ~ cA pues LAP A EAS
SOOO RCE RBLAITA Paciiyent 4 Plan ORF toe
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE : BHAA Ed york PEt PE Ne

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
VIL.

Role of the Board
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The Board must review all submissions (including plans, reports, programs,
policies, and procedures) required by this Consent Order prior to submission
to the Bureau.
Although this Consent Order requires Respondent to submit certain
documents for review or non-objection by the Enforcement Director, the
Board will have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound
management of Respondent and for ensuring that Respondent complies with
the laws that the Bureau enforces, including Federal consumer financial laws
and this Consent Order.
In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure
adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondent, the Board must:
a. Authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondent to fully comply

with the Consent Order;
POA PAE Am aN ~ . 4 oe I A EA ~~ me ~~
2OOH Be RAGA Mie issycinmt 4 Cla RP 4 Foon Meee OR} AERA
QAP EIS PE WA? PAS ROKER TE Pek iia NS CARS Rat

b. Require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of
compliance obligations; and
c. Require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any material
non-compliance with any failures to comply with Board directives related
to this Section.
MONETARY PROVISIONS
VIII.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

65. Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $1,600,000 to the Bureau.

66. Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

67. The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,

12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
68.

69.

PSP PROP ay Py . oA pay SPT Pe ax ar er ad
SPAM ESS Pe Pe APA Pree ey ceed of Clad Marea foOAgy Brees, TRA af RR
eee eh bathe ome ew a de bd b POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pere’ epey se NOP eet ree e PY ati test ee fer ON
hn Sad ate RP Bat : RPA TAS Pd Bo oPee et Netter PP ee 3 Sage GP Er

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this
Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of

a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
AYA PEP PR A PU aa aun Pete LP POP ET PS, TREY BE OS
POORER DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan ORF toe Rane DR Af RAR
Soke eR Pee BaP AS SPEER Pkg Sobek Nott wot FP a ee 5 Rade Seta Sat a te

amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

IX.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

70.

71.

72.

73.

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement

in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
74.

75.

APN POA AM am ~ - 4 pues OO Ee
AHO Beem Ann RPhaciirnant 4 Pian QRIa4fanen
Sa tet : RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS Pre EAP EAS

Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of
consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.
COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
X.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:
70.

77.

ARAN SMAPEMm Anan PN oe a ehh APA Fe mY ae
eOSO.RCERELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilacd GRP Toon Pane @Y of 3S
than Sad an at Rad Nat : BHAA Ed york At PP A eS : Ae cP A hae

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal
addresses as points of contact that the Bureau may use to communicate
with Respondent;

b. identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses;
and

c. describe the activities of each such business, including the products and
services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 74 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective

Date, Respondent must submit to the Enforcement Director an accurate

written compliance progress report (Compliance Report) that has been

approved by the Board, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a

minimum:

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order

and describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
ARAM RS AMAA ~ a ot mT A Em
2OOH Be RAGA Miners t fF Plan ORF toe
Sa tet : RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS Pre EAP EAS

complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;

b. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan (if required pursuant to Section VI);
and

c. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section

XI, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
XI.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

78. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.

79. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well
as to any managers, employees, Service Providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.

80. For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this

Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
81.

82.

A PAM Rr AMS Pe aunt A Prey At PL FO a PA Ria ewe TIN BE OO
eOSO.RCERELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad G8 /3¢7feoeo Pane PO of 348
than Sad an at Rad Nat : te AEN Ed PoP Sat at PE Cr eS : Seg he Gah td rt

referred to in Paragraph 74, any future board members and executive

officers, as well as to any managers, employees, Service Providers, or other

agents and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the
subject matter of the Consent Order before they assume their
responsibilities.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt

of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures

comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent

Order under this Section.

XII.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must create and retain the following business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with
each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions to the
Bureau.

b. Templates of all prepayment disclosures, receipts, and combined
disclosures, along with records sufficient to demonstrate the dates and

locations in which each template was in use and the number of
83.

84.

consumers who received each template; and
c. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received directly

or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses to those

complaints or requests.
Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 82 available
to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XII.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “‘/n re
Trans-Fast Remittance LLC, File No. 2020-BCFP-0010” and send them by
overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and

contemporaneously by email to Eniorcement. Compliance@cip
A

 

Assistant Director for Enforcement
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement
1700 G Street, N.W.

Washington D.C. 20552
85.

86.

87.

APN PERE OR AMO ~ a ere mee Ee
8OOOWR CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE : BHAA Ed york PEt PE Ne

XIV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory

process.
APN PERE OR AMO ~ a ere mee Ee
8OOOWR CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe
Ba Sf tn ST et = ; BA AEN Pa PPA Pit PF OA A

XV.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

88. Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.

89. The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement

Director must be in writing.

ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
XVI.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
90. The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 91. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
91.

92.

93.

APA PR OAR Ae ~ : of pansy » OR ER ax a
SAO eee Te AMA ms Pree ey ceed of Clad Marea foOAgy Byes, 2
eee eh bathe ome ew a de bd b POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pere’ epey se NOP eet ree e ~

than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except

to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
94.

95.

96.

97.

PPA OPE TIE PR ot me ~ LA ems y . PE ey
POOR CERLOATO Racument 4 Fuad O8f8 1/2020
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE : BHAA Ed york PEt PE Ne

suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated
agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are Subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent

Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
2020-BCFP-0010 Document1 Filed 08/31/2020 Page 35 of 35

accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

98. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to

violate any law, rule, or regulation.

qh
IT ISSO ORDERED, this day of August, 2020.

   
  
 

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

   

35
