Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

A? £4

 

SEC Charges General Electric and Two Subsidiaries with
FCPA Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2010-133

 

Washington, D.C., July 27, 2010 — The
Securities and Exchange Commission today High-Res Photo
charged General Electric Company with
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(FCPA) for its involvement in a $3.6 million
kickback scheme with Iraqi government
agencies to win contracts to supply medical
equipment and water purification equipment.

The SEC alleges that two GE subsidiaries —
along with two other subsidiaries of public
companies that have since been acquired by
GE — made illegal kickback payments in the
form of cash, computer equipment, medical
supplies, and services to the Iraqi Health
Ministry or the Iraqi Oil Ministry in order to

 

 

 

obtain valuable contracts under the U.N. Oil "GE failed to maintain

for Food Program. adequate internal controls
to detect and prevent these

Additional Materials illicit payments by its two
subsidiaries to win Oil for

® Litigation Release No. 20602 Food contracts, and it failed

» SEC Complaint to properly record the true

nature of the payments in
its accounting records."

 

GE agreed to pay $23.4 million to settle the
SEC's charges against the company as well as
the two subsidiaries for which GE assumed
liability upon acquiring: lonics Inc. and
Amersham plc. The SEC charged GE, lonics
and Amersham with violating the books and
records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA. The SEC has now taken
15 FCPA enforcement actions against companies involved in Oil for Food-
related kickback schemes with Iraq, recovering more than $204 million.

Cheryl Scarboro
Chief of SEC's FCPA
Enforcement Unit

 

 

 

"Bribes and kickbacks are bad business, period," said Robert Khuzami,
Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement. "This case affirms that law
enforcement is active across the globe - offshore does not mean off-limits."

Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief of the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit,
added, "GE failed to maintain adequate internal controls to detect and
prevent these illicit payments by its two subsidiaries to win Oil for Food
contracts, and it failed to properly record the true nature of the payments in
its accounting records. Furthermore, corporate acquisitions do not provide GE
immunity from FCPA enforcement of the other two subsidiaries involved."

According to the SEC's complaint, filed in U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia, the kickback scheme occurred from approximately 2000 to 2003.
GE subsidiaries Marquette-Hellige and OEC-Medical Systems (Europa) AG
made approximately $2.04 million in kickback payments to the Iraqi
government under the Oil for Food Program. lonics Italba S.r.L. (a then-
subsidiary of lonics) and Nycomed Imaging AS (a then-subsidiary of
Amersham) made approximately $1.55 million in cash kickback payments.
Since their acquisitions by GE, Amersham and lonics are now known as GE
Healthcare Ltd. and GE lonics, Inc., respectively.

The SEC alleges that Germany-based Marquette paid or agreed to pay illegal
kickbacks in the form of computer equipment, medical supplies, and services
on three contracts worth $8.8 million. Through an Iragi third-party agent,
Marquette paid goods and services worth approximately $1.2 million to the
Iraqi Health Ministry in order to obtain two of the contracts. The agent offered
to make an additional in-kind kickback payment worth approximately
$250,000 to obtain the third contract.

The SEC further alleges that Switzerland-based OEC-Medical made an in-kind
kickback payment of approximately $870,000 on one contract worth $2.1
million through the same third-party agent who handled the Marquette
contracts. OEC-Medical and the agent entered into a fictitious "services
provider agreement" identifying phony services the agent would perform in
order to justify his increased commission and conceal the illegal kickback
from U.N. inspectors.

According to the SEC's complaint, Norway-based Nycomed entered into nine
contracts with Iraqi ministries involving the payment of approximately
$750,000 in cash kickbacks between 2000 and 2002. As a result, Nycomed
earned approximately $5 million in wrongful profits on the contracts. GE
acquired Nycomed's parent company — Amersham — in 2004. Italy-based
lonics Italba was a subsidiary of lonics, Inc., which GE acquired in 2005.
Between 2000 and 2002, lonics Italba paid $795,000 in kickbacks and earned
$2.3 million in wrongful profits on five Program contracts to sell water
treatment equipment to the Iraqi Oil Ministry. GE acquired its parent company
- lonics Inc., in 2005.

Without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, GE as well as lonics (now
GE lonics Inc.) and Amersham (now GE Healthcare Ltd.) have consented to
the entry of a court order permanently enjoining them from future violations
of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. GE is ordered to pay $18,397,949 in disgorgement of profits,
$4,080,665 in prejudgment interest, and a penalty of $1 million. GE
cooperated with the investigation.

The SEC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice's Fraud
Section and the United Nations Independent Inquiry Committee. Tracy L. Price
and Robert I. Dodge conducted the SEC's investigation, which is continuing.

HEHE

Cheryl J. Scarboro
Chief, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403

Tracy L. Price

Assistant Director, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, SEC Division of
Enforcement

202-551-4490

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-133.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 07/27/2010
