UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

. U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION,

100 F. Street, NE

Washington, D.C. 20549-5030,

Plaintiff, Civil Action No.

ve

~— er ——_ a" “a ae" a a" ae one

~ GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY |

3135 Easton Turnpike Case: 1:10-cv-01258

Fairfield, CT 06828, | ' . Assigned To : Roberts, Richard W.
Assign. Date : 7/27/2010

IONICS, INC. | Description: General Civil
. 3 Burlington Woods Drive | :
Burlington, MA 01803,

and

AMERSHAM PLC
Amersham Place

Little Chalfont, HP7 9NA
United Kingdom,

Defendants.

‘ <

 

COMPLAINT
Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), alleges
that:
SUMMARY
1. This case involves the payment of illegal kickbacks to Iraqi government
ministries in connection with sales of humanitarian goods under the United Nations |
UN?) Oil for Food Program (the “Program”). From approximately 2000 to 2003, two.

subsidiaries of the General Electric Company (“GE”) -- Marquette-Hellige (“Marquette”)
and OEC-Medical Systems (Europa) AG (“OEC-Medical’’) -- made approximately

$2.04 million in Kickback payments in the form of computer equipment, medical
supplies, and services to the Iraqi Health Ministry under the Program. Prior to GE’s
acquisition of their parent companies, two other current GE subsidiaries -- Ionics Italba
S.r.L. (“Ionics Italba”), and Nycomed Imaging AS, currently GE Healthcare AS
(“Nycomed”) -- made approximately $1.55 million in.cash kickback payments under the
Program. Nycomed was a subsidiary of publicly-registered Amersham plc, which was
acquired by GE after the conduct at issue in this Complaint and is currently known as GE
Healthcare Ltd. Ionics Italba was a subsidiary of publicly-registered Ionics, Inc., which
was acquired by GE after the conduct at issue in this Complaint and is currently known as
GE Ionics, Inc.

2. Marquette, OEC-Medical, Tonics italba, and Nycomed each authorized
and paid kickbacks to Iraqi government ministries through agents in the form of “after-
sales service fees” (“ASSF payments”) on sales of products to Iraq. All four subsidiaries
knew that such kickbacks were prohibited by the Oil for Food Program and U.S. and
international trade sanctions on Iraq.

3. The Oil for Food Program was intended to provide humanitarian relief to
the Iraqi population, then subject to comprehensive international trade sanctions. The
Program allowed the Iraqi government to purchase necessary humanitarian goods, but
required that all purchases be made through a UN-controlled escrow account. The
kickbacks paid in connection with all four subsidiaries’ Oil for Food contracts had the
effect of diverting funds out of the — account and, with respect to the cash

kickbacks paid by Ionics Italba and Nycomed, into an Iraqi slush fund.
4. As a result of this conduct, GE, Ionics, and Amersham each violated
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)] by failing to maintain
accurate books and records and by failing to ensure that its subsidiaries maintained

adequate internal controls to detect and prevent the illegal kickbacks.

JURISDICTION

ae This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 US.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. GE, Ionics, and
Amersham directly or indirectly made use of the means or sasteumnentalities of interstate
commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection
with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.

6. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] because certain acts or transactions constituting the violations alleged

in this Complaint occurred in this district.

DEFENDANTS
ds General Electric Company (“GE”), headquartered in Fairfield,
Connecticut, is divided into five principal segments: GE Capital; GE Technology
Infrastructure; GE Energy Infrastructure; Business & Home Solutions; and NBC
Universal. Through these segments, GE participates in a wide variety of markets,
including the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, lighting, industrial
automation, medical imaging equipment, motors, railway locomotives, aircraft jet

engines, and aviation services. It has a presence in over 100 countries. Throughout the
relevant time period, GE’s common stock was registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “GE.”

8. Amersham ple, currently GE Healthcare Ltd., (“Amersham”), based in |
the United Kingdom, is currently-a wholly-owned GE subsidiary within the GE
Technology Infrastructure segment. GE acquired Assentvan plc, the parent company
that owned Nycomed, on April 14, 2004, after the conduct at issue in this Complaint.
During the Program, Amersham plc listed American Depository Receipts on the New
York Stock Exchange and was therefore subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.
Amersham’s financial results have been consolidated with those of GE since GE’s |
acquisition of Nycomed’s parent company in 2004.

9. Ionics, Inc., currently GE Ionics, Inc. (“Ionics”), based in Burlington,
Massachusetts, is a wholly-owned subsidiary within the GE Energy Infrastructure
segment. GE acquired Ionics, Inc., the parent company that owned Ionics Italba, on
February 22, 2005, after the conduct at issue in this Complaint. During the Program,
Ionics, Inc. was a publicly-listed company in the United States. Ionics, Inc. was subject
to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Commission throughout the relevant period. Ionics,
Inc.’s financial results have been consolidated with those of GE since GE’s acquisition of

Ionics Italba’s parent company in 2005. _

RELEVANT ENTITIES
10. Marquette-Hellige (“Marquette”), based in Germany, is a wholly-owned,
third-tier subsidiary of GE within the GE Technology Infrastructure segment. Marquette
manufactures and sells medical equipment. Among the products it sold to the Iraqi

government under the Oil for Food Program were fetal monitors, disposable electrodes,
and transducers. Marquette was a GE subsidiary when the conduct at issue in this
complaint occurred, and its financial results were consolidated with those of GE
throughout the relevant period.

11. OEC-Medical Systems (Europa) AG (“OEC-Medical”), based in
Switzerland, is a wholly-owned, second-tier subsidiary of GE within the GE Technology |
Infrastructure business. OEC-Medical manufacturés and sells medical equipment. It sold
C-arms (C-shaped armatures used to support X-ray equipment) to the Iraqi government
under the Oil for Food Program. OEC-Medical was a GE subsidiary when the conduct at |
issue in this complaint occurred, and its financial results were consolidated with those of
GE throughout the relevant period. |

12. Nycomed Imaging A.S., currently GE Healthcare AS (“Nycomed”),
based in Norway, is currently a wholly-owned GE subsidiary within the GE Technology
Infrastructure segment. Nycomed manufactures and sells X-Ray and MRI contrast |
— It sold these contrast agents to the Iraqi government under the Oil for Food
Program. At the time of the conduct at issue in this Complaint, Nycomed was a

‘subsidiary of Amersham plc, which was acquired by GE on April 1, 2004. Nycomed’s
financial results were consolidated with those of Amerson throughout the relevant
period. -

13. Tonics Italba S.r.L. (lonies Italba’’), based in Italy, is a wholly-owned
subsidiary within the GE Energy Infrastructure segment. Jonics Italba manufactures and
sells water purification equipment. At the time of the conduct at issue in this Complaint,

Ionics Italba was a subsidiary of Ionics, Inc., which was acquired by GE on February 22,
2005. Ionics Italba’s financial results were consolidated with those of Ionics throughout

the relevant period.

FACTS

| The United Nations Oil for Food Program

14. The Oil for Food Program was intended to provide humanitarian relief for
the Iraqi population, which faced severe hardship under the international trade sanctions
that followed Iraq’s 1990 invasion of Kuwait. Starting in December 1996, the Program
permitted the Iraqi government to sell its crude oil and use the proceeds to purchase food,
medicine, and critical infrastructure supplies. By the end of the Program, Iraq had sold
$64.2 billion worth of crude oil and purchased $34.5 billion in humanitarian supplies

15. The proceeds of the oil sales were transferred directly from the buyers to
an escrow account (the “UN Escrow Account”) maintained in New York by the United
_ Nations 661 Committee. Funds in the UN Escrow Account were available for the
purchase of humanitarian supplies, subject to UN approval and supervision. The intent of
this structure was to prevent the proceeds of Iraq’s crude oil sales from undermining the
sanctions regime by providing the regime of Saddam Hussein with access to hard
currency.

| 16. | Corruption was rampant within the Program. By mid-2000, all Iraqi

ministries participating in the Program followed a policy of demanding that all suppliers
of humanitarian goods pay a ten percent kickback on each contract. The kickback
requirement was euphemistically referred to as an “after-sales service” fee (“ASSF”).

Suppliers competing to obtain contracts under the Program were encouraged to inflate

their contract bids by ten percent to cover the ASSF kickback. Once accepted, the
inflated Contact prices were incorporated into the Oil for Food contracts. In this manner,
it was the UN Escrow Account that ultimately funded the kickback payments.

17. Following the 2004 release of a report by the US. General Accounting
Office exposing some of the abuses, thé UN commissioned an independent inquiry
conunittee, headed by former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul. Volcker, (the “Volcker
Committee”) to investigate the Program’s performance. That committee’s October 27,
2005, final report estimated that the Iraqi government had diverted $1.7 billion in illicit
income from the Program. Of that, $1.5 billion was derived from kickbacks that were
demanded from suppliers of humanitarian goods to Traq.

18. Starting in mid-2000, the Iraqi government made a concerted effort to
subvert the Pro gram by demanding secret kickbacks from suppliers of humanitarian
goods. Although contracts entered into pursuant to the Program were subject to UN
review and approval, the Program gave the Iraqi authorities discretion to select the
companies from which they purchased goods and to negotiate contract terms. Each Iraqi
ministry determined what humanitarian goods it needed and circulated tenders seeking
requests for bids. Suppliers submitted bids for the sale of their goods. After the ministry
accepted the winning bid, it informed the supplier that it had to pay an under-the-table
kickback in the form.of an ASSF to the ministry as a condition of the contract. The
ASSF had to be paid before the goods entered into the country or the shipment would be

held at the border.

19. | When the kickback scheme began, suppliers typically met with the Iraqi
ministries in person and signed side agreements acknowledging their obligation to-pay

the kickbacks. The side agreements were not provided to the UN, as required, when the
| Oil for Food contracts were submitted and approved. By October 2000, the kickback
amount was usually ten percent of the total contract value. As the scheme progressed,
and the participants grew more accustomed to making the ten percent payment, the use of
signed side agreements became less common. Suppliers simply increased their original
contract bids by ten percent and submitted the inflated contracts to the UN for approval,
without disclosure of the ten percent kickback. Once a supplier paid the ASSF iGicktvaetc
to the Iraqi ministry and shipped the goods called for sindes the contract, the UN Escrow
Account paid the supplier the inflated contract price, unknowingly reimbursing the
supplier for the ten percent kickback. | |

20. Following the United States invasion of Iraq in March 2003, the UN,
working with the Coalition Provisional Authority, halted the ASSF kickback scheme.. All

Program contracts then pending were renegotiated to back-out the ten percent kickback.
I. Payment of ASSFs under the Program

21. Four current GE subsidiaries, only two of which were GE subsidiaries
during the relevant period, engaged in Oil for Food transactions involving ASSF
kickbacks: Marquette; OEC-Medical; Nycomed; and lonies Italba. These subsidiaries
entered into a total of eighteen contracts in which ASSF kickbacks were either made or
authorized. In total, the subsidiaries, working through third-party agents, made ASSF
kickback payments of approximately $3,584,842. The four subsidiaries earned profits of

approximately $18,397,949 as a result of their illegal kickbacks.

A. In-Kind Kickbacks Paid on Marquette Contracts
22. . Marquette, based in Germany, manufactures and sells cardiology

monitoring equipment and has been a GE subsidiary since 1998. In 2000 and 2001,
Marquette entered into three Program exinitrant in which it either paid or agreed to pay
illegal kickbacks in the form of computer equipment, medical supplies, and services. The ©
contracts were for the supply of medical equipment (disposable electrodes, transducers,
and fetal monitors) to the Iraqi Health Ministry. The contracts generated a combined
gross profit to Marquette of $8.8 million.

23. In order to obtain two of the contracts, Marquette’s Iraqi agent made
in-kind kickback payments of goods and services worth approximately $1.2 million to the
Iraqi Health Ministry in violation of UN regulations. In order to obtain the third contract,
the agent offered to make an additional in-kind kickback payment worth approximately
$250,000. The illegal kickbacks were made or offered with the knowledge and approval
of Marquette officials.

24. The Iraqi agent negotiated all three of the contracts on Marquette’s behalf. _

| The contracts were direct agreements between Marquette and the Iraqi Ministry of |
Health. As the contracts were ee negotiated, both the agent and two Marquette sales
managers were present at meetings with the Iraqi Health Ministry when Iraqi government
officials demanded the payment of ten percent kickbacks. The Marquette officials
declined to make cash payments to the Iraqi ministry. But they acquiesced when their
agent offered instead to make the payments on Marquette’s behalf in the form of
computer equipment, medical supplies, and services equal to ten percent of the contracts’
value. The UN regulations governing the Program prohibited extra-contractual payments
of any kind, whether made in the form of goods and services or cash.

25. In order to cover the cost of the illegal kickbacks, Marquette increased the

Iraqi agent’s commission from approximately 13% of the contract price to approximately
23%. The agent used the extra 10% to cover the cost of the equipment and services he
kicked back to the Iraqi ministry. The UN contract prices were inflated by a
corresponding 10% amount. The UN inspectors were never advised that a portion of the
agent’s increased commission was intended to cover extra-contractual in-kind kickbacks
to Iraqi government ministries.

26. At one point during the performance of a Marquette contract to supply
domes transducers, Iraqi customs officials stopped the Marquette shipment at the border
until the shipper could prove that the ASSF kickback payment had been made.
Subsequent email exchanges among the shipper, Marquette’s Iraqi agent, and Marquette
officials, refer to the need to document the ASSF payment. After the Iraqi agent supplied
proof of the ASSF kickback payment, the goods were ultimately allowed into Iraq.

27. Following the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, the third of the Marquette
contracts was renegotiated by the UN. During the course of renegotiation, an employee
of Marquette’s Iraqi agent provided false information to the UN regarding the kickbacks.
The agent falsely stated that the.contract had been negotiated with the Iraqi Health
Ministry before ths lagi officials began demanding kickbacks on Program contracts.
The Marquette sales manager was advised of the misrepresentation to the UN and there
is no indication that he made any effort to correct the false statement. When the UN
eliminated the ten percent kickback from the contract, Marquette reduced the Iraqi
agent’s commission from 23% to 13% of the contract price, consistent with the parties’
understanding that the kickback was to have been funded out of the agent’s commission.

28. The in-kind ASSF payments were inaccurately described in Marquette’s

books and records as commissions or other legitimate business expenses. Marquette also

10
failed to maintain adequate internal controls to detect or prevent the illicit in-kind ASSF
payments. .
B. In-Kind Kickbacks Paid on OEC-Medical Contracts

29. OEC-Medical, based in Switzerland, manufactures and sells médical
equipment. OEC was a GE subsidiary throughout the relevant period. In 2000, OEC-
Medical entered into one Program contract that included an illegal kickback payment.
The contract was to provide C-Arms (C-shaped armatures used to support X-ray
equipment) to the Iraqi Ministry of Health. OEC made an in-kind kickback payment .
erorth approximately $870,000 on the contract and earned a wrongful profit of
$2.1 million. |

30. | The OEC-Medical contract was negotiated by the same third party agent
that handled the Marquette contracts. During the contract negotiation, the OEC-Medical
salesman reSponsihile for the contract attended meetings in Baghdad with the agent,
where they were told by Iraqi Health Ministry officials that the contract would require a
ten percent kickback. As was done with the Marquette contracts, the Iraqi agent agreed
to make the payment on behalf of OEC-Medical in the form of computer equipment,
medical supplies, and services, rather than cash.

31. To reimburse the Iraqi agent for the cost of the kickback, OEC-Medical
_ increased the agent’s commission on the contract by approximately 10% (from 5% of the
contract price to 15%). The contract price that OEC-Medical charged to the UN was
artificially increased by a commensurate amount. In order to conceal from UN inspectors
the fact that the agent’s commission had been increased to cover an illegal kickback,

' OEC-Medical and the agent entered into a fictitious “services provider agreement” in

1]
November 2000. The fictitious agreement purported to identify services the agent would
perform to justify his ineteanedl commission. Those services, however, were not part of
OEC-Medical’s actual contract with the Iraqi Health Ministry and were never intended to |
be performed. The sham agreement was nonetheless provided to the UN for inspection
as part of the contract package.

32. When the C-Amms were shipped to Iraq in the Summer of 2001, email
traffic among OEC-Medical officials, the Iraqi agent, and the shipping company referred
explicitly to the need to prove that the kickback payment had been made in order to clear
the goods across the Iraqi border. OEC-Medical’s Iraqi agent confirmed in writing to
OEC-Medical and the shipper that he would see to it that the cost of the kickback would
come out of his commission. The in-kind kickback was made, and the goods were
subsequently allowed into Iraq.

33. The in-kind ASSF payments were inaccurately described in OEC-
Medical’s books and records as commissions or other legitimate business expenses.
OEC-Medical also failed to maintain adequate internal controls to detect or prevent the

illicit in-kind ASSF payments.

C. Cash Kickbacks Paid on Nycomed Contracts
34. During the Program, Nycomed was a subsidiary of Amersham, which was
acquired by GE in 2004 Nycomed’s conduct at issue in this Complaint occurred prior to
the acquisition. Amersham plc listed American Depository Receipts on the NYSE and
was therefore subject to the Commission’s regulatory jurisdiction. GE acquired the

liabilities of Amersham, along with the assets, in its acquisition of Amersham.

12
35. Between 2000 and2002, Nycomed entered into nine contracts involving
the payment of cash ASSF kickbacks. The nine Nycomed contracts were all direct
agreements between Nycomed and che Iraqi Ministry of Health for the provision of
Omnipaque and Omniscan. Omanipaque is an injectible contrast agent used in
conjunction with X-rays; and Omniscan is a contrast agent used in conj unction with
. magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Nycomed paid approximately $750,000 if
__ kickbacks on the nine contracts and earned approximately $5 million in wrongful profits.

36. The contracts were negotiated by Nycomed’s Jordanian agent. The
kickback payments were explicitly authorized by Nycomed’s salesman in Cyprus. The
Nycomed salesman increased the agent’s commission from 17.5% to 27.5% of the
contract price, and artificially increased the UN contract prices by 10%, all to cover the
cost of the kickbacks. Numerous email messages between the Nycomed salesman and |
the Jordanian agent allude to the connection between the increased commission rate and
the kickback payments.

37. In one instance, a UN official inquired into the basis for the 27.5%
commission being paid to the Jordanian agent. The inquiry triggered a panicked email —
message from a Nycomed marketing coordinator in Norway who was also aware of the
‘kickback payments, to officials at Nycomed responsible for handling the UN inquiry. In
response, a Nycomed manager sent a letter to the UN falsely describing the work that-the
Jordanian agent was to perform to justify. its commission, omitting that 10% of the 27.5%

was to cover Iraqi kickback payments.

13
38. The ASSF payments were inaccurately described in Nycomed’s books and
records as commissions or other legitimate business expenses. Nycomed also failed to

maintain adequate internal controls to detect or prevent the illicit ASSF payments.

D. Cash Kickbacks Paid on Ionics Italba Contracts

39. Ionics Italba was a subsidiary of Jonics, which was acquired by GE in
2005. Ionics Italba’s conduct occurred prior to the acquisition. Tonics was a publicly-
listed company in the United States and was subject to the Commission’s regulatory
jaietiavial throughout the relevant period. GE acquired Ionics’ liabilities, along with the
assets, in its acquisition of Ionics.

40. Ionics Italba, based in Italy, manufactures and sells water purification
equipment. Between 2000 and 2002, Ionics Italba paid $795,000 in kickbacks and earned
$2.3 million in wrongful profits on five Program contracts to sell equipment to the Iraqi
Oil Ministry. The five Program contracts were all direct agreements between Ionics
Italba and the Iraqi Oil Ministry for the provision of water treatment equipment. The
contracts were negotiated by Ionics Italba’s Jordanian agent. Four of the five contracts
were negotiated with side letters documenting the commitment of Ionics Italba to make
the cash kickback payments. The side letters were concealed from UN inspectors in
violation of a Program requirement to provide all contract documentation for inspection
and UN approval.

41. In the first of these contracts, the illegal kickback payment was concealed
under a fictitious line item for “modification and adaptation at site of obsolete spare
parts.” When UN inspectors in January 2001 requested additional detail about the line

item, officials at Ionics Italba passed the inquiry along to the Iraqi Oil Ministry. The

14
Ministry’s proposed response, villichs described services neither party intended to be
performed, was incorporated nearly verbatim in a letter that Ionics Italba provided to the
UN, after which the contract was approved. When the contract was performed, the UN
paid for the services in two installments -- 90% for the products called for under the
contract and 10% for the phony modification services. The Iraqi Oil Ministry prepared
and sent a false invoice to cover the second payment.

42. In subsequent contracts, the ten percent kickback requirement was simply
incorporated into the agent’s commission and was not identified in a separate contract
line item. On all five contracts, Ionics Italba attificially inflated the prices charged to the
UN by 10% to — the cost of the kickback payments. The purpose of the 10% price
increase was not disclosed to UN inspectors. On the majority of the Ionics Italba
contracts, the invoices provided by the sales agent included fictitious activities to justify
the agent’s inflated commission.

43. The kickback payments are reflected in invoices and bank records of |
payments from Ionics Italba to the sales agent that served as its payment intermediary.
The sales agent made the payments to the Iraqi Oil Ministry through a Saudi Arabian
front company acting on the Ministry’s behalf. - |

44. The ASSF payments were inaccurately described in Ionics Italba’s books
and records as commissions or other legitimate business expenses. Ionics Italba also
failed to maintain adequate internal controls to detect or prevent the illicit ASSF.

payments.

15
CLAIMS FOR ‘RELIEF
EF IRST CLAIM |
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

45. Paragraphs 1 through 44 are realleged and incorporated by reference. _

46. As deseribed above, GE, Ionics, and Amersham, through their respective
officers, agents, consultants, representatives, and subsidiaries, failed to keep books,
records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, aceurately and fairly reflected their
transactions and dispositions of its assets. GE Tonics, Inc. and GE Healthcare Ltd., both
subsidiaries of GE, are the raspontive successors to the liabilities of Ionics and
Amersham.

' 47. By reason of the foregoing, GE, Ionics, and Amersham each violated

Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 US.C. § 78m(b)(2)({A)]-

SECOND CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act] .

48. Paragraphs 1 through 47 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

49. As desctibed above, GE, Ionics, and Amersham each failed to ensure that
their subsidiaries devised and maintained systems of internal accounting controls
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (1) payments were made in accordance
with management’s general or specific authorization; and (ii) payments were recorded as
necessary to maintain accountability for-the eompantes’ assets. GE Ionics, Inc. and GE
Healthcare Ltd., both subsidiaries of GE, are the respective successors to the liabilities of

Ionics and Amersham.

16
50. By reason of the foregoing, GE, Ionics, and Amersham each violated

Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment: | | |

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining GE, Ionics, and Amersham from
violating Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.

§§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)];

B. Ordering GE to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment interest,
wrongfully obtained as a result of the conduct of all four subsidiaries alleged in this
Complaint; | |

D. Ordering GE to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; and

17
E. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: Sub 2), 2010

Respectfully submitted,

Cheryl J. Scayior6 (D.C. Bar No. 422175)
Tracy L. Prée

Robert I. Dodge

Attorneys for Plaintiff,
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE

Mail Stop 5030-A

Washington, DC 20549

(202) 551-4403 (Scarboro)

18
