UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

100 F Street, NE

Washington, D.C. 20549

Plaintiff, CIVIL ACTION NO.

v. COMPLAINT
DIEBOLD, INC.

5995 Mayfair Road
North Canton, OH 44720

Defendant.

a a ee al

 

COMPLAINT

Plaintiff U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) alleges:

SUMMARY

1. This matter concerns violations of the anti-bribery, books and records, and
internal control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Diebold,
Inc. (“Diebold”), an Ohio company that is a global provider of automated teller machines
(“ATMs”) and bank security systems. From 2005 through 2010, Diebold, through its
agents and subsidiaries, lavished international leisure trips, entertainment, and other
improper gifts on foreign officials to obtain and retain lucrative business with
government owned banks in China and Indonesia. During that same period, Diebold,

through its Russian subsidiary, paid bribes in connection with the sale of ATMs to private
banks in Russia. In all, Diebold made approximately $3 million in illicit payments in

China, Russia, and Indonesia.

2. From 2005 through 2010, through its subsidiary Diebold Financial
Equipment Company (China), Ltd. (“Diebold China”), Diebold provided international
leisure trips and entertainment to officials of government owned banks in China. This
included trips to Europe, with stays in Paris, Amsterdam, Florence, Rome, and other
European cities, and trips to the United States, with travel to the Grand Canyon, Napa
Valley, Disneyland, Las Vegas, and other popular tourist destinations. Diebold spent
approximately $ 1.6 million on leisure trips, entertainment, and other improper gifts for
government bank officials in China. During this same time period, through its subsidiary
P.T. Diebold Indonesia (“Diebold Indonesia’), Diebold spent over $147,000 on leisure
trips and entertainment for officials of government owned banks in Indonesia. Diebold
executives in charge of the company’s operations in Asia knew of these improper
practices. The illicit payments were falsely recorded in Diebold’s books and records as

training or other legitimate business expenses.

3. From 2005 through 2008, through its subsidiary Diebold Self-Service Ltd.
(“Diebold Russia”), Diebold also paid bribes on the sale of ATMs to private banks in
Russia. These bribes, which totaled approximately $1.2 million, were funneled through a
Diebold distributor in Russia. Diebold Russia executed phony service contracts with its

distributor to hide and falsely record the payments as legitimate business expenses.

4. Diebold, through its agents and subsidiaries, violated Section 30A of the

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1] by providing
leisure travel and other improper gifts to foreign officials to obtain and retain business
with government owned banks in China and Indonesia. Diebold violated Section
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by failing to have internal controls in place to detect and
prevent those improper payments, and the improper payments to employees of private
banks in Russia. Diebold violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by falsely
recording all of these improper payments as legitimate business expenses in the
company’s books and records.
JURISDICTION

5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d), 21(e),
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and78aa]. Diebold, directly or
indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the
mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection with the
transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.

6. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. § 78aa] or 28 U.S.C. § 1391(d).

DEFENDANT

7. Diebold, Inc. (“Diebold”) is an Ohio corporation headquartered in North
Canton, Ohio. Diebold manufactures and sells ATMs and bank security systems.
Diebold operates in over 90 countries around the world. Diebold’s common stock is
registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(b) and is listed on

the New York Stock Exchange.
RELATED INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES

8. Diebold Financial Equipment Company (China), Ltd. (“Diebold China’)
is a subsidiary of Diebold organized and located in China.

9. P.T. Diebold Indonesia (“Diebold Indonesia”) is a subsidiary of Diebold
organized and located in Indonesia.

10. Diebold Self-Service Ltd. (‘Diebold Russia’) is a subsidiary of Diebold
organized and located in Russia.

11. Executive A, a citizen of Taiwan and a resident of China, is a former
Diebold executive. From January 2010, until his resignation in December 2011,
Executive A was Diebold’s Executive Vice President for International Operations. From
2006 through January 2010, Executive A was Diebold’s Vice President for the EMEA
and Asia Pacific regions.

12. Executive B, a citizen of Taiwan and a resident of China, is a former
executive of Diebold Pacific Limited, a subsidiary of Diebold organized and located in
Hong Kong. From January 2010, until his resignation in December 2011, Executive B
was Diebold’s Vice President for the Asia Pacific region. From 2006 through January
2010, Executive B was Diebold’s Managing Director in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.

13. Distributor A is a Russian company headquartered in Moscow, Russia.
From 2005 through 2010, Distributor A was a distributor of Diebold products in Russia
and Ukraine.

14. Distributor B is a Ukrainian company headquartered in Kiev, Ukraine.

From 2005 through 2010, Distributor B was a distributor of Diebold products in Ukraine.
FACTS

Corrupt Payments in China

15. Diebold sells ATMs and related services to government owned banks in
China. From at least 2005 through 2010, Diebold, through its subsidiary Diebold China,
provided international leisure trips, entertainment, and other improper gifts to foreign
officials for the purpose of obtaining and retaining business with government owned
banks in China. These illicit payments totaled approximately $1.6 million. Examples of
international leisure trips that Diebold provided to government bank officials in China are
described in paragraphs 16-23.

16. In 2005, Diebold paid for a fifteen-day leisure trip to the U.S. for two
officials from Bank A, a bank owned and controlled by the government of China. This
trip included travel to Universal Studios and Disneyland in Los Angeles, Las Vegas, the
Grand Canyon, Washington, DC, New York City, San Francisco, and Hawaii.

17. In 2006, Diebold paid for a twelve-day trip to Europe for eight officials
from Bank B, a bank owned and controlled by the government of China. This was a
leisure and sightseeing trip to Rome, Italy, and Stockholm, Sweden.

18. Also in 2006, Diebold paid for a two-week leisure trip to Australia and
New Zealand for five officials from Bank C, a bank owned and controlled by the
government of China.

19. In 2007, Diebold paid for a two-week trip to France for thirteen Bank A
employees. While purportedly for training at Diebold’s offices, the primary purpose of

the trip was leisure.
20.  In2008, Diebold paid for a two-week leisure trip to Europe for eight
officials of Bank D, a bank owned and controlled by the government of China. The trip
included travel to Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Cologne, Frankfurt, Munich, Salzburg,
Vienna, Klagenfurt, Venice, Florence, and Rome.

21. Also in 2008, Diebold paid for a two-week leisure trip to the U.S. for three
officials from Bank E, a bank owned and controlled by the government of China.

22. Also in 2008, Diebold paid for a two-week leisure trip for ten employees
of Bank F, a bank owned and controlled by the government of China. This trip included
travel to Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, and Bali.

23. In 2009, Diebold paid for a two-week trip to the U.S. for twenty-four Bank
A employees that included travel to Chicago; to Las Vegas for sightseeing, a dance show,
and tour of the Grand Canyon; to Los Angeles for a tour of Universal Studios; to San
Diego and San Francisco, which included a tour of Napa Valley.

24. In addition to the leisure trips and entertainment, Diebold China also
provided government bank officials in China with other improper gifts. This included
cash gifts ranging from less than $100 to over $600 that were given to dozens of officials
annually.

25. | Many of the government bank employees who received these leisure trips
and other improper gifts were senior officials who had the ability to influence purchasing
decisions by the banks.

26. Diebold lacked sufficient internal controls to detect and prevent these

illicit payments, many of which were paid to third-parties in China. All of the illicit
payments were falsely recorded in the company’s books and records as training or other
legitimate business expenses.

27. Diebold executives in charge of the company’s operations in Asia knew
that Diebold China was providing international leisure trips and other improper gifts to
Chinese bank officials. This included Executive A, Diebold’s former Executive Vice
President for International Operations, and Executive B, Diebold’s former Vice President
for the Asia Pacific region. During their tenure at Diebold, Executive A and Executive B
knew that Diebold China was providing international leisure trips, entertainment, and
other improper gifts to Chinese bank officials. At times these executives personally
approved the illicit payments and accompanied government officials on these trips. Even
after these Diebold executives received FCPA training administered by the company in
2007, they took no action to halt these improper practices. Instead, these executives took
further steps to hide the leisure nature of these trips including, on at least one occasion,
providing false information to the company’s auditors in China.

28. | Other executives at Diebold were on notice of potential corruption issues
at Diebold China. In 2007, a regional government agency in China, the Chengdu
Administration of Industry & Commerce (“CDAIC”), opened an investigation involving,
among other issues, leisure trips and gifts Diebold China had provided to bank officials.
Company executives in China and the U.S. learned of the investigation after a Diebold
field office in Chengdu was raided by authorities. Executives A and B took the lead in
responding to the investigation. Diebold was able to settle the matter with no corruption
charges filed, by paying CDAIC an administrative penalty of 600,000 RMB

(approximately $80,000) for business registration violations. Despite being on notice of
potential corruption issues at Diebold China, Diebold failed to effectively investigate and
remediate these problems.

29. From 2005 through 2010, Diebold generated approximately $265 million
in revenues from sales to government owned banks in China whose officials received

international leisure travel, entertainment, and other improper gifts by the company.

Corrupt Payments in Indonesia

30. Diebold sells ATMs and related products and services to government
owned banks in Indonesia. From 2005 through 2010, through its subsidiary Diebold
Indonesia, Diebold provided leisure trips and entertainment to officials of government
owned banks in Indonesia. Diebold Indonesia spent approximately $147,000 on leisure
trips and entertainment for officials from three government owned banks in Indonesia:
Bank X, Bank Y, and Bank Z. The purpose of providing these leisure trips was to assist
Diebold in obtaining business with these government banks. For example, in one email
exchange in 2009, a Diebold Indonesia employee sought approval from his supervisor to
pay for a leisure trip to Europe for officials of Bank X. The supervisor approved the
payment and responded: “Make this trip successful for upcoming bid too!”

31. As in China, Diebold lacked effective internal controls to detect and
prevent payment for these leisure trips for government bank officials, and the payments
were falsely recorded in Diebold’s books and records as training costs. During this time
period, Diebold generated approximately $16 million in revenues from sales to
government owned banks in Indonesia whose officials were provided leisure trips and

entertainment by the company.
False Books and Records in Russia

32. During the relevant period, Diebold, through its subsidiary Diebold
Russia, sold ATMs to banks in Russia and Ukraine. In Russia, the company sold ATMs
both directly, and through independent distributors. Between 2005 and 2008, Diebold
Russia paid at least $1.2 million in bribes through Distributor A, a private Russian
company, to employees of privately held banks in Russia. These bribes were funneled
through Distributor A using phony service contracts that Diebold Russia executed with
Distributor A. Distributor A did not perform any services pursuant to these contracts.
Rather, Distributor A passed along the payments it received under these contracts to
employees of the private banks to which Diebold Russia was selling ATMs. Diebold
lacked sufficient internal controls to detect and prevent these illicit payments, all of
which were falsely recorded in the company’s books and records as legitimate business
expenses.

33. | Asearly as 2007, Diebold was on notice of corruption issues involving
Diebold Russia’s use of distributors in this region. In 2007, Diebold was seeking to
acquire Distributor B, a Ukrainian company that was an independent distributor of
Diebold products in Ukraine. During due diligence, executives at Diebold, including
Executive A and certain executives in the company’s legal and corporate development
offices learned that Distributor B had previously made illicit payments to employees of
its bank customers. Diebold was unable to determine whether these illicit payments
involved sales of Diebold products. While Diebold did not move forward with the
acquisition, without taking any further steps to investigate and remediate these corruption

issues, Diebold continued to do business with Distributor B until 2010.
34. Similarly, in 2009, Diebold was seeking to acquire Distributor A, its
largest independent distributor in Russia and Ukraine. During due diligence, evidence
emerged that Distributor A potentially had made illicit payments in connection with its
business. Diebold continued doing business with Distributor A, and continued moving
forward with its planned acquisition. Only later, in 2010, after evidence emerged that
Distributor A had also been funneling bribe payments on behalf of Diebold Russia, did
the company terminate its business dealings and acquisition plan with Distributor A.

FIRST CLAIM
(Anti-Bribery)
. [Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act]

35. Paragraphs 1 through 34 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

36. | As described above, Diebold, through its agents and subsidiaries, made
use of the mails or means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of
money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value
to any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of value would
be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, for the
purposes of influencing their acts or decisions in their official capacities, inducing them
to do or omit to do acts in violation of their official duties, securing an improper
advantage, or inducing such foreign officials to use their influence with a foreign

government or instrumentality, to assist Diebold in obtaining or retaining business.

37. By reason of the foregoing, Diebold violated Section 30A of the Exchange
Act [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1].

10
SECOND CLAIM
(Books and Records)
[Violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

38. | Paragraphs 1 through 34 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

39. | As described above, Diebold failed to make and keep books, records and
accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and
disposition of its assets.

40. By reason of the foregoing, Diebold violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

THIRD CLAIM
(Internal Controls)
[Violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]

41. Paragraphs 1 through 34 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

42. Asdescribed above, Diebold failed to devise and maintain a system of
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions
were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and
transactions were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable
to such statements, and to maintain accountability for its assets.

43. By reason of the foregoing, Diebold violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]

11
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a Final
Judgment:

A. Permanently enjoining Diebold from violating Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A),
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1,
78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)];

B. Ordering Diebold to disgorge all ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a
result of its illegal conduct, plus prejudgment interest; and

c. Granting such other relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: October 22, 2013

Respectfully submitted,

.

 

Scott W. Friestad
Brian O. Quinn (DC Bar No. 450013)
Devon A. Brown

Attorneys for Plaintiff,

Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE

Washington, D.C. 20549

(202) 551-4582 (Brown)

12
