#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, June 16, 2016

Businessman Pleads Guilty to Foreign Bribery and Tax Charges in Connection with Venezuela
Bribery Scheme

The owner of multiple U.S.-based energy companies pleaded guilty today to foreign bribery and tax charges for his role in a scheme to corruptly
secure energy contracts from Venezuela’s state-owned and state-controlled energy company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA).

Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern
District of Texas, Acting Special Agent in Charge Sean McElroy of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security
Investigations (ICE-HSI) in Houston, and Special Agent in Charge Richard Goss of Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-Cl)
Houston Field Office made the announcement.

Roberto Enrique Rincon Fernandez (Rincon), 55, of The Woodlands, Texas, pleaded guilty today in federal court in Houston to an information
charging him with one count of conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), one count of violating the FCPA and one count of
making false statements on his 2010 federal income tax return. U.S. District Judge Gray H. Miller of the Southern District of Texas accepted
Rincon’s plea and imposed a personal money judgment against Rincon, who agreed to a forfeiture. Sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 30, 2016.

Rincon was arrested on Dec. 16, 2015, after a grand jury in the Southern District of Texas returned an 18-count indictment against him and
Abraham Jose Shiera Bastidas (Shiera), 53, of Coral Gables, Florida.

According to admissions made in connection with Rincon’s plea, Rincon and Shiera worked together to submit bids to provide equipment and
services to PDVSA through their various companies. Rincon admitted that beginning in 2009, he and Shiera agreed to pay bribes and other
things of value to PDVSA purchasing analysts to ensure that his and Shiera’s companies were placed on PDVSA bidding panels, which enabled
the companies to win lucrative energy contracts with PDVSA. Rincon also admitted to making bribe payments to other PDVSA officials in order
to ensure that his companies were placed on PDVSA-approved vendor lists and given payment priority so that they would get paid ahead of
other PDVSA vendors with outstanding invoices. In his plea agreement, Rincon admitted that he willfully failed to report on his 2010 federal tax
return over $6 million in foreign dividend income he received from a Venezuelan corporation he owned.

Rincon is the sixth individual to plead guilty as part of a larger, ongoing investigation by the U.S. government into bribery at PDVSA. Shiera
previously pleaded guilty before Judge Miller to one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA and commit wire fraud and one count of violating
the FCPA and is scheduled to be sentenced on Sept. 30, 2016. In March 2016, Judge Miller also unsealed charges against four other individuals
charged in connection with the ongoing investigation, including three foreign officials. The foreign officials admitted that while employed by
PDVSA or its wholly owned subsidiaries or affiliates, they accepted bribes from Rincon and Shiera in exchange for taking certain actions to assist
companies owned by Rincon and Shiera in winning energy contracts with PDVSA. The foreign officials also conspired with Rincon and Shiera to
launder the proceeds of the bribery scheme, they admitted. As part of their plea agreements, Rincon, Shiera and the other defendants all
agreed to forfeit proceeds from their criminal activity.

ICE-HSI and IRS-Cl are conducting the ongoing investigation, with assistance from the FBI. Trial Attorneys Aisling O’Shea and Jeremy R. Sanders
of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Deputy Chief John Pearson and Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert S. Johnson of the Southern District of

Texas are prosecuting the case. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kristine Rollinson and Vincent Carroll of the Southern District of Texas are handling the
forfeiture aspects of the case.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs and the Swiss Federal Office of Justice also provided assistance.

Additional information about the department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption
Tax

Component(s):
Criminal Division
riminal - Criminal Fr tion

USAO - Texas, Southern

Press Release Number:
16-698

Updated October 3, 2017
