cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Files Suit Against Loan Doctor and Edgar
Radjabli for Deceptive Acts and Practices in Marketing a Savings CD Account

JUL 06, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) today filed a
lawsuit against My Loan Doctor LLC, a Delaware financial-services company operating in
West Palm Beach, Florida and New York City and doing business as Loan Doctor (Loan
Doctor), and its founder, Edgar Radjabli. The Bureau alleges that Loan Doctor and Radjabli
made several false, misleading, and inaccurate marketing representations in advertising
Loan Doctor's “Healthcare Finance (HCF) Savings CD Account,” in violation of the Consumer
Financial Protection Act's (CFPA) prohibition against deceptive acts or practices. As the
Bureau's complaint alleges, starting in August 2019, Loan Doctor took more than $15
million from at least 400 consumers who opened and deposited money into Loan Doctor's
deceptively advertised product.

The Bureau’s complaint, filed in federal district court in the Southern District of New York,
specifically alleges that Loan Doctor and Radjabli engaged in four separate deceptive acts
or practices in violation of the CFPA.

= Loan Doctor and Radjabli falsely represented that the money consumers deposited into
Loan Doctor's HCF High Yield CD Accounts would be used to originate loans for healthcare
professionals and that Loan Doctor, before making a loan, would have an investor lined up
to purchase it after it was made; in fact, Loan Doctor never used the deposits to originate
loans for healthcare professionals and never entered into a contract with a buyer or investor
to purchase a loan.

= Loan Doctor and Radjabli falsely represented that the money consumers deposited into
Loan Doctor's HCF High Yield CD Accounts, when not being used to originate loans, would
be held in an FDIC-insured account, an account insured by Lloyd’s of London, or a “cash
alternative” or “cash equivalent,” and, further, that Loan Doctor would maintain a cash
reserve in an amount “equivalent to” the amount consumers deposited; in fact, consumers’
deposits were invested in actively traded securities or loaned, through a third party, to
investors using individual stock portfolios as collateral.

= Loan Doctor and Radjabli falsely represented that Loan Doctor was a commercial bank and
that consumers’ deposits were safe and comparable to a traditional savings account with a
guaranteed return; in fact, Loan Doctor was not a commercial bank, and consumers’
deposits were invested in volatile securities or securities-backed investments.

= Loan Doctor and Radjabli falsely represented that Loan Doctor's HCF High Yield CD
Accounts paid interest at rates between 5 percent and 6.25 percent in the years before
2019; in fact, Loan Doctor did not even begin taking consumer deposits until August 2019.

The Bureau seeks redress for consumers, an injunction, and the imposition of civil money
penalties.

The complaint is not a finding or ruling that the defendants have violated the law.

A copy of the complaint filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York is available here: https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_loan-
doctor_complaint_2020-07.pdf YW (cfpb.gov/documents/8969/cfob_loan-doctor_complaint_
2020-07.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
