#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, April 19, 2018

Former Venezuelan Official Pleads Guilty to Money Laundering Charge in Connection with Bribery
Scheme

The former general manager of the procurement subsidiary of Venezuela’s state-owned and state-controlled energy company, Petroleos de
Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), pleaded guilty today for his role in an international money laundering scheme involving bribes paid by the owners of
U.S.-based companies to Venezuelan government officials to corruptly secure energy contracts and payment priority on outstanding invoices.

Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Ryan K. Patrick of the Southern
District of Texas and Special Agent in Charge Mark Dawson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations’
(ICE-HSI) Houston Field Office made the announcement.

Cesar David Rincon Godoy (Cesar Rincon), 50, a citizen of Venezuela previously residing in Spain, pleaded guilty today in federal court in
Houston to one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering. U.S. District Judge Kenneth M. Hoyt of the Southern District of Texas
accepted Cesar Rincon’s plea and imposed a personal money judgment in the amount of $7,033,504.71 against the defendant, who agreed to
the entry of an order of forfeiture. Sentencing is scheduled for July 9.

Cesar Rincon was arrested in Spain in October 2017 and subsequently extradited to the United States after a federal grand jury in the Southern
District of Texas returned a 20-count indictment against him and Luis Carlos De Leon Perez (De Leon), 41; Nervis Gerardo Villalobos Cardenas
(Villalobos), 50; Alejandro Isturiz Chiesa (Isturiz), 33; and Rafael Ernesto Reiter Munoz (Reiter), 39. According to admissions made in connection
with Cesar Rincon’s plea, between January 2012 and June 2013, he conspired with De Leon, Villalobos, Isturiz, Reiter and others, all of whom
were then-current officials of PDVSA and its subsidiaries or former officials of other Venezuelan government agencies or instrumentalities, to
solicit PDVSA vendors for bribes and kickbacks in exchange for providing assistance to those vendors in connection with their PDVSA business.
Specifically, Cesar Rincon admitted that he accepted bribes from Roberto Enrique Rincon Fernandez (Roberto Rincon), 57, of The Woodlands,
Texas, and Abraham Jose Shiera Bastidas (Shiera), 54, of Coral Gables, Florida, in exchange for taking official acts in his capacity as general
manager of PDVSA’s procurement subsidiary in order to assist Roberto Rincon’s and Shiera’s companies, including their U.S.-based companies,
in receiving payment priority and receiving additional PDVSA contracts. Cesar Rincon further admitted that he then conspired with Roberto
Rincon and Shiera to launder and conceal the proceeds of the bribery scheme through a series of financial transactions, including wire transfers
to accounts in the United States and Switzerland held in the names of individuals or entities other than Cesar Rincon. Both Roberto Rincon and
Shiera previously pleaded guilty in the Southern District of Texas to charges under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for their respective
roles in the bribery scheme. They currently await sentencing.

As part of his plea agreement, Cesar Rincon also admitted to soliciting and receiving bribes from other owners of energy companies based in
the United States in exchange for his assistance in helping those individuals and their companies win business with PDVSA and obtain payment
from PDVSA on outstanding invoices ahead of other PDVSA vendors. In total, Cesar Rincon admitted to conspiring with others to launder at
least $7,033,504.71 in proceeds from the various bribery schemes in which he participated.

The charges against De Leon, Villalobos, Isturiz and Reiter remain pending. Each of the four remaining defendants is charged with one count of
conspiracy to commit money laundering and with one or more counts of money laundering. De Leon and Villalobos are also each charged with
one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA. De Leon was extradited from Spain on March 9, and was ordered detained pending trial following a
detention hearing held on April 10, before U.S. Magistrate Judge Frances H. Stacy of the Southern District of Texas. Villalobos and Reiter remain
in Spanish custody pending extradition and Isturiz remains at large.

The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt in a court of law.

Cesar Rincon becomes the latest individual to plead guilty as part of a larger, ongoing investigation by the U.S. government into bribery at
PDVSA. Including Cesar Rincon, Roberto Rincon, and Shiera, the Justice Department has announced the guilty pleas of a total of 1lindividuals in
connection with the investigation.

ICE-HSI in Houston is conducting the ongoing investigation with assistance from ICE-HSI in Boston and Madrid, as well as from IRS Criminal
Investigation. Trial Attorneys Jeremy R. Sanders, Sarah E. Edwards and John-Alex Romano of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Deputy
Chief John Pearson and Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert S. Johnson of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Kristine Rollinson of the Southern District of Texas is handling the forfeiture aspects of the case.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs, the Swiss Federal Office of Justice and the Spanish Guardia Civil have provided substantial
assistance.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Attachment(s):
Download Rincon-Godoy et_al Indictment Unsealed

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud
Public Corruption

Component(s):

Criminal Division

Criminal - Criminal Fraud Section
USAO - Texas, Southern

 

Press Release Number:
18-506

Updated April 19, 2018
