Release Number 7456-16

 

September 28, 2016

CFTC Orders SG Americas Securities, LLC to Pay a $750,000 Civil Monetary Penalty for its
Participation in Wash Transactions and Related Supervision Failures

CFTC Finds that the Firm Lacked Adequate Controls and Procedures to
Detect and Prevent the Execution of Unlawful Wash Exchange of
Futures for Physical Transactions

SG Americas Securities, LLC is the successor to Newedge USA, LLC

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today issued an Order filing and
simultaneously settling charges against SG Americas Securities, LLC, as successor to Newedge USA, LLC
(Newedge), a financial services firm registered with the CFTC as a Futures Commission Merchant for participating in
unlawful wash trades and for failing to diligently supervise over a three and a half year period. The CFTC Order requires
SG Americas Securities, as successor to Newedge, to pay a $750,000 civil monetary penalty and comply with an
undertaking to improve its internal controls and procedures in order to detect and prevent the execution, clearing and
reporting to an exchange of non-bona fide exchange of futures for physical transactions (EFPs).

The CFTC Order finds that Newedge executed and confirmed the execution of, and reported to the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange (CME) and Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), numerous EFPs in agricultural and soft commodities, throughout the
period from June 2010 through at least January 2014, for and on behalf of its clients that are, are of the character of, or
are commonly known as wash sales. Such transactions are expressly prohibited in Section 4c(a) of the Commodity
Exchange Act (CEA).

According to the CFTC Order, the EFP trades that Newedge executed and confirmed were for the same contract, quantity,
and same or similar price with the buyer and seller for each EFP under the same common control and ownership. The
Order further finds that the trades were executed under circumstances where certain Newedge account representatives
either knew that clients desired to net out futures positions across commonly owned and controlled accounts through the
use of EFPs, or else failed to inquire why clients were routinely on both sides of the EFPs. Accordingly, the transactions
constituted illegal “wash sales” within the meaning of Section 4c(a) of the CEA. Moreover, the Order states that because
the EFPs were not done in accordance with the written rules of the CME and CBOT, they were not bona fide EFPs, and,
therefore, Newedge caused prices to be reported, registered, or recorded that were not true and bona fide prices, also in
violation of Section 4c(a) of the CEA. Further, by accepting and transmitting EFP orders that were not executed openly
and competitively pursuant to exchange rules, but in a manner that avoided market risk and price competition that
legitimate, competitive trading entails, Newedge executed noncompetitive trades for customers in violation of CFTC
Regulation 1.38(a), the Order finds.

The Order also finds that during the relevant period, Newedge failed to supervise diligently its employees’ handling of the
transactions at issue and lacked adequate policies and procedures designed to detect and deter the execution of wash
EFP trades, in violation of CFTC Regulation 166.3.

The CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this matter are Carlin Metzger, Joseph Patrick, Robert
Howell, Scott Williamson, and Rosemary Hollinger, with assistance from Division of Market Oversight staff David Amato,
Eugene Kunda, and Jerry Lavin.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: September 28, 2016
