Pade Lofie
a 6
sour bistrot Foxe

AUG 2 4 2017

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT Dead & Cradley, Cork of Court
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

17(R515

CRIMINAL NO.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
V.

FERNANDO ARDILA-RUEDA,
Defendant.

§
§
§
§
§
§

INFORMATION
THE UNITED STATES CHARGES:

COUNT ONE
(Conspiracy — 18 U.S.C. § 371)

Introduction

At all times material to this Information:

1. Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (“PDVSA”) was the Venezuelan state-
owned and state-controlled oil company. PDVSA and its subsidiaries were
responsible for the exploration, production, refining, transportation, and trade in
energy resources in Venezuela and provided funding for other operations of the
Venezuelan government. Bariven S.A. (“Bariven’’) was the PDVSA procurement
subsidiary responsible for equipment purchases. PDVSA and its wholly owned
subsidiaries, including Bariven, were “instrumentalities” of the Venezuelan
government as that term is used in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”),

Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(2)(A). PDVSA officers and
employees were “foreign officials” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15,
United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(2)(A).

2. At all relevant times, Abraham Jose SHIERA BASTIDAS
(“SHIERA”), who has been charged separately, was the owner of a number of
other U.S.-based energy companies that supplied equipment and services to
PDVSA, and a resident of the United States, and thus a “‘domestic concern” and an
officer, director, employee, agent, and shareholder of a “domestic concern” as
those terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-
2(h)(1).

3. At all relevant times, Roberto Enrique RINCON FERNANDEZ
(“RINCON”), who has been charged separately, was the owner of a number of
U.S.-based energy companies, including several companies based in the Southern
District of Texas, that supplied equipment and services to PDVSA, and a resident
of Texas, and thus a “domestic concern” and an officer, director, employee, agent,
and shareholder of a “domestic concern” as those terms are used in the FCPA, Title
15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1). RINCON and SHIERA worked
together on a number of PDVSA contracts and contract bids.

4. Defendant FERNANDO ARDILA RUEDA (“Defendant
ARDILA”), a resident of Miami-Dade County, Florida, worked as a business

partner of SHIERA and a minority owner of SHIERA’s companies, including a
company headquartered in the Southern District of Texas. Among other things,
Defendant ARDILA’s responsibilities included serving as sales director or
manager for certain of the companies, including generating business for these
companies with PDVSA by approaching and developing relationships with
PDVSA officials. Defendant ARDILA was thus a “domestic concern” and an
officer, director, employee, agent, and shareholder of a “domestic concern” as
those terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-
2(h)(1).

5. “Official H,” an individual whose identity is known to the United
States, was at all relevant times employed by PDVSA or a wholly owned
subsidiary thereof, including as a planning and engineering supervisor. Official
H’s job responsibilities included helping to select or recommend vendors for
specific PDVSA projects. Official H was a “foreign official” as that term is used
in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(2)(A).

6. “Accountant 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the United
States, worked as an accountant for SHIERA’s companies.

7. “Accountant 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the United

States, worked as an accountant for SHIERA’s companies.
The Conspiracy

8. Beginning in at least 2008 and continuing through at least 2014, in the

Southern District of Texas, and elsewhere, the defendant,
FERNANDO ARDILA RUEDA,

did willfully, that is, with the intent to further the objects of the conspiracy, and
knowingly conspire, confederate, and agree with SHIERA, RINCON, and others
known and unknown, to commit offenses against the United States, that is: being a
domestic concern and an officer, director, employee, agent, and shareholder of a
domestic concern, and together with a domestic concern, to willfully make use of
the mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the payment
of any money, offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of the giving of
anything of value to a foreign official and to a person, while knowing that all or a
portion of such money and thing of value would be and had been offered, given,
and promised to a foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and
decisions of such foreign official in his official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign
official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such official;
(iii) securing any improper advantage; and (iv) inducing such foreign official to
use his influence with a foreign government and agencies and instrumentalities
thereof to affect and influence acts and decisions of such government and agencies

4
and instrumentalities, in order to assist Defendant ARDILA, SHIERA, RINCON,
their companies, and others in obtaining and retaining business for and with, and
directing business to, SHIERA’s and RINCON’s companies, in violation of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(a).
Purpose of the Conspiracy

9. The purpose of the conspiracy was for Defendant ARDILA,
SHEIRA, RINCON, and their co-conspirators, to enrich themselves by obtaining
and retaining lucrative energy contracts with PDVSA through corrupt and
fraudulent means, including by paying bribes to PDVSA officials, including, but
not limited to, Official H.

Manner and Means of the Conspiracy

10. The manner and means by which Defendant ARDILA and his co-
conspirators sought to accomplish the purpose of the conspiracy included, among
other things, the following, while in the Southern District of Texas and elsewhere:

11. In order to obtain and retain business for and on behalf of SHIERA’s
and RINCON’s companies, Defendant ARDILA, together with others, including
SHIERA and RINCON, would and did discuss:

a. the need to provide things of value to PDVSA officials;

b. the identity of the PDVSA officials whom they would target;

c. the particular things of value to provide to those officials; and

5
A
2
2
a4
in
ros
i)
co
ro
po.
cid
co)
5,

d. the manner and means by which things of value would be provided.

12. Defendant ARDILA, together with others, including SHIERA and
RINCON, would and did solicit and agree with PDVSA officials, on behalf of
SHIERA’s and RINCON’s companies, that those companies would pay bribes
based on a percentage of any contracts the PDVSA officials helped to award to
SHIERA’s and RINCON’s companies.

13. Defendant ARDILA, together with others, including SHIERA and
RINCON, caused bribe payments to be wired from the bank accounts of
SHIERA’s companies to the bank accounts of PDVSA officials, their relatives, or
other individuals or entities designated by the PDVSA officials who received the
bribes, including to bank accounts in the Southern District of Texas.

14. Defendant ARDILA, together with others, including SHIERA, would
and did provide to PDVSA officials things of value, including meals and
entertainment, in order to obtain and retain business on behalf of SHIERA’s and
RINCON’s companies.

15. Defendant ARDILA, together with others, including SHIERA, would
and did attempt to conceal the bribery scheme by creating and using private e-mail

accounts to communicate about the scheme.
9]
cit
3
of

th

rm

Sat

co

va

Soe

tab
4

Overt Acts

16. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to achieve the objects thereof, at
least one of the co-conspirators committed or caused to be committed, in the
Southern District of Texas and elsewhere, at least one of the following overt acts,
among others:

17. Onor about November 10, 2008, Defendant ARDILA sent an e-mail
to Accountant 1 stating, as translated into English, “We need to make a payment of
US$74,753.00 to this ally.”” The co-conspirators frequently referred to the PDVSA
officials to whom they were paying bribes as “aliados,” or, as translated into
English, “allies” or “allieds.” For the purpose of concealing the identities of the
PDVSA officials when discussing bribe payments related to the scheme, Defendant
ARDILA and his co-conspirators assigned each official an “aliado number.”

18. Onor about July 13, 2010, Defendant ARDILA sent an e-mail to
Accountant | and SHIERA stating, as translated into English, “Attached, please
find what we have to pay urgently out of the pending amount to the allies.”

19. Onor about September 29, 2011, Defendant ARDILA sent an e-mail
to Accountant 2 stating, as translated into English, “We need to make a transfer of
US$ 100K to AL_100[the “aliado number” for Official H]. Please confirm. Note
that I am going to going to give you 2 accounts for you to divide the transfer

amount into 60 and 40%.” Defendant ARDILA then set forth the account
9]
cit
3
of

tf

rm

Sat

co

va

Soe

tab
4

information for an account in the United States in the name of a relative of Official
H.

20. Onor about October 19, 2011, one of SHIERA’s companies
transferred $40,000 from its account in Panama to the account in the name of
Official H’s relative described in Paragraph 19 above.

21. Onor about June 4, 2012, Defendant ARDILA wrote to Accountant 1
and SHIERA, stating, as translated into English, “I’m attaching the coordinates for
the first 5|OK$ to be wired to [Official H]...you can make several transfers with
amounts lower than 50K$.”

22. Defendant ARDILA frequently circulated among his co-conspirators
a series of spreadsheets that tracked the bribe payments that were owed to various
PDVSA officials, who were identified on the spreadsheets by nicknames and
“aliado numbers.” Defendant ARDILA generally referred to this spreadsheet as
“Schindler’s List.” On or about September 9, 2013, Defendant ARDILA sent an
e-mail to Accountant 2 attaching such a spreadsheet and stating, as translated into
English, “Please find the requested indicators and the updated Schindler list. Be
very careful with this information and do not make any transfer to anyone who

does not have an identifier.”

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.
9]
cit
3
of

tf

rm

ae

co
va
Soe
tab

Theeaes Copsey
ade YOY ie

COUNT TWO
(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act — 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-2; 18 U.S.C. § 2)

23. Paragraphs | through 7 and 9 through 22 are realleged and
incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein.
24. Onor about the dates set forth below, in the Southern District of

Texas and elsewhere, the defendant,

FERNANDO ARDILA RUEDA,
being a domestic concern and an officer, director, employee, agent, and
shareholder of a domestic concern, and by aiding and abetting a domestic concern,
did willfully use and cause to be used the mails and means and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay,
and authorization of the payment of money, offer, gift, promise to give, and
authorization of the giving of anything of value to a foreign official, and to a
person, while knowing that all and a portion of such money and thing of value
would be and had been offered, given, and promised to a foreign official, for
purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign official in his or her
official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and omit to do acts in
violation of the lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing any improper advantage;
and (iv) inducing such foreign official to use his or her influence with a foreign

government and agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts
and decisions of such government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to
assist Defendant ARDILA, SHIERA, and SHIERA’s companies, in obtaining and
retaining business for and with, and directing business to SHIERA’s companies, to
wit: On or about September 29, 2011, Defendant caused $40,000 to be transferred
from one of SHIERA’s companies into a bank account in the United States in the
name of a relative of Official H in exchange for Official H’s assistance in selecting

SHIERA’s companies for PDVSA projects.

All in violation of Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2, and Title
18, United States Code, Section 2.

NOTICE OF CRIMINAL FORFEITURE
(28 U.S.C. § 2461(c); 18 U.S.C. § 981(a)(1)(C))

25. Pursuant to Title 28, United States Code, Section 2461(c) and Title
18, United States Code, Section 981(a)(1)(C), the United States gives notice to the

defendant,

FERNANDO ARDILA RUEDA,

that in the event of his conviction of any of the offenses charged in Counts | and 2

of this Information, the United States intends to seek forfeiture of all property, real

10
oe te wom eo
faces Avt vier SWI Verio nt 4
Rothe Skeet UR LUE

or personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to such

offenses.

Money Judgment

26. Defendant is notified that upon conviction, a money judgment may be
imposed equal to the total value of all property subject to forfeiture.

Substitute Asset Provision

27. Defendant is notified that in the event that property subject to
forfeiture, as a result of any act or omission of defendant or his co-conspirators,

a. Cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;

b. Has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third person;

c. Has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the Court;

d. Has been substantially diminished in value; or

e. Has been commingled with other property which cannot be subdivided
without difficulty;

it is the intent of the United States to seek forfeiture of any other property of the
defendants up to the total value of such property pursuant to Title 21, United States
Code, Section 853(p), incorporated by reference in Title 28, United States Code,

Section 2461(c).

11
BY:

ABE MARTINEZ
ACTING UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY

 

JOHN P.PEARSON ~
DEPUTY CHIEF

ROBERT S. JOHNSON
ASSISTANT UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY

BY:

12

SANDRA MOSER

ACTING CHIEF

FRAUD SECTION
CRIMINAL DIVISION
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  

ATSLINGO’SHEA
JERE R. SANDERS
TRIAL ATTORNEYS
