Release Number 7150-15

    

April 1, 2015

CFTC Charges Kraft Foods Group, Inc. and Mondelez Global LLC with Manipulation of
Wheat Futures and Cash Wheat Prices

CFIC also charges violations of position limits and noncompetitive
trading

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced the filing of a civil
enforcement Complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against Kraft Foods Group, Inc. and
Mondelez Global LLC, headquartered in Northfield and Deerfield, Illinois, respectively, for manipulation and attempted
manipulation of the prices of cash wheat and wheat futures. The Complaint also alleges that Kraft and Mondeléz violated
speculative position limits by holding wheat futures positions in excess of speculative position limits established by the
CFTC and the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) without a valid hedge exemption or a bona fide hedging need, and engaged
in numerous noncompetitive trades in CBOT wheat.

Aitan Goelman, the CFTC’s Director of Enforcement, stated: “This case goes to the core of the CFTC’s mission: protecting
market participants and the public from manipulation and abusive practices that undermine the integrity of the
derivatives markets. A market participant who is not happy with cash prices available to it may not resort to manipulative
trading strategies in an attempt to artificially lower that price.”

According to the CFTC Complaint, in response to high cash wheat prices in late Summer 2011, Kraft and Mondeléz
developed, approved, and executed in early December 2011 a strategy to buy $90 million of December 2011 wheat
futures, which amounted to a six-month supply of wheat. The CFTC Complaint alleges that Kraft and Mondeléz never
intended to take delivery of this wheat and instead executed this strategy expecting that the market would react to their
enormous long position by lowering cash wheat prices and strengthening the spread between December 2011 wheat and
March 2012 wheat futures. Those price shifts did occur and, according to the CFTC Complaint, Kraft and Mondeléz earned
over $5.4 million in profits.

The CFTC Complaint also alleges that on five dates in early December 2011, Kraft and Mondeléz held long positions in
December 2011 wheat that exceeded the CBOT’s 600-contract speculative spot month position limit by as much as 2,110
contracts without having a valid hedge exemption in place or a bona fide need for that quantity of wheat.

Finally, the CFTC Complaint alleges that beginning in or about 2003 and continuing through January 2014, prior to each
of the five annual delivery periods for CBOT wheat, Kraft and Mondeléz conducted off-exchange futures transactions
between two separate corporate trading accounts that did not comply with exchange rules for noncompetitive, off-
exchange futures trades.

In its continuing litigation against Kraft and Mondeléz, the CFTC seeks a permanent injunction from future violations of
federal commodities laws, disgorgement, and civil monetary penalties.

The CFTC staff members responsible for this case are Division of Enforcement staff Robert Howell, Jennifer E. Smiley,
Joseph Patrick, Susan Gradman, Scott Williamson, and Rosemary Hollinger, and Division of Market Oversight staff David
Amato, Gene Kunda, and Jerry Lavin.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: April 1, 2015
