2020-BCFP-0018 Document’ Filed 10/26/2020 Page 1 of 51

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP-0018

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Low VA Rates, LLC

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of Low VA Rates, LLC (Low VA Rates
or Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24 of
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in
Lending Act (TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts
and Practices—Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R.

§ 1014.3; and $$ 1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12

U.S.C. 88 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order.
AAA PoP MAAC
HOO. RCEPR.OO18
fn ka ae LP :

oD
2
3
of
athe
ae
ao
co
hh
ast
ft
VB
%;

Overview
Low VA Rates is a mortgage lender and broker that offers and provides
mortgages guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA).
Low VA Rates advertises these mortgage products to consumers through
direct-mail advertising campaigns. Low VA Rates focuses its business on
United States military servicemembers and veterans.
Low VA Rates has sent millions of advertisements that violate federal law
because of misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop Low VA Rates from distributing
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.

II.
Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12
U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as

amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5538.
AAA PoP MAAC
HOO. RCEPR.OO18
fn ka ae LP :

oD
2
3
of
athe
ae
wd
co
hh
ast
ft
VB
a
%;

Hl.
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated October 14, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under

§§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting
or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

IV.
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertising Compliance Official” means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 120. The Advertising Compliance
Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,

chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
AAA Perr AAA Pa
O20-BCFR-0O18 Do

athe A A

Coa wee tk PR TPN EN PON ~
seman 4 Riba To Poe Peay ey
AGEiter gh of PERS FAA cok ks

Pe
sae

a
or
ae

Pe
whe

of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be in a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears; presented before the consumer incurs any
financial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.

“Direct mail advertisements” or “mailers” means a type of mortgage
advertisement sent directly to consumers via physical mail.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exemplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contained in the advertisement as sent, posted,

published, or disseminated to a consumer.
10.

ANA Phen AA
I9PO-RBCER.0048
fn ka ae LP :

LS
ms
i
3
of
2
ee
cet A
cS
BD
a:
2
3
i
a
at

g. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent
Order.

h. “Relevant Period” includes from January 1, 2016, to the Effective
Date.

1. “Respondent” means Low VA Rates, LLC, and its successors and
assigns.

V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Low VA Rates is a Colorado limited liability company with its principal
place of business in Lindon, Utah.

Low VA Rates is licensed as a mortgage broker or lender in 48 states and the
District of Columbia.

Low VA Rates is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(19),
because it is a company. Low VA Rates is a “person” as defined in

Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), because it is a type of organization.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Low VA Rates is a “person” as defined in the MAP Rule, 12 C.F.R.

§ 1014.2, because it is a type of business entity.

During the Relevant Period, Low VA Rates has been a “covered person”
under the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages
in offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer
financial product[s] or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6),
(15)(A)().

During the Relevant Period, Low VA Rates has been subject to the MAP
Rule because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58.
12 C.F.R. § 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 548114).

Low VA Rates provides “mortgage credit product[s],” as that term is defined
in the MAP Rule. 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

Low VA Rates’ mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
in 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, Low VA Rates has offered “closed-end credit”
in the form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in

Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10) & (11).
16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

AAA PoP MAAC
HOO. RCEPR.OO18
fn ka ae LP :

oD
2
3
of
athe
ae
ao
co
hh
ast
ft
VB
%;

Low VA Rates’ mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end
credit,” as that term is defined in Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10).
Low VA Rates offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed
by the VA.

Low VA Rates’ principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, including veterans
and servicemembers.

Since January 2016, Low VA Rates has mailed millions of mortgage
advertisements to consumers in 48 states and the District of Columbia.
Hundreds of thousands of consumers have received at least one of Low VA
Rates’ direct-mail advertisements, and tens of thousands of consumers have

obtained mortgages through Low VA Rates.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations
Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, Low VA Rates was responsible for both the
content of, and the dissemination of, numerous mortgage advertisements
during the Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, or inaccurate

statements, as described below.
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

AAA PoP MAAC
HOO. RCEPR.OO18
fn ka ae LP :

oD
2
3
of
athe
ae
wd
co
hh
ast
ft
VB
6)
%;

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate
Representations About Cost and Other Credit Terms

Most of Low VA Rates’ mortgage advertisements stated specific credit
terms, such as an interest rate, annual percentage rate (APR), payment
amount, index, margin, or closing costs.

By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, Low VA Rates
represented, expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a
mortgage with those credit terms.

In fact, Low VA Rates did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific
credit terms stated in many of those advertisements.

In numerous instances, Low VA Rates’ advertisements misrepresented the
actual credit terms applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.
Numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements described mortgages
with a simple interest rate and APR combination that Low VA Rates was not
actually prepared to arrange or offer.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 573,500 mailers to consumers between
April 28, 2017, and November 24, 2017, that advertised a mortgage with a
simple-interest rate of 2.25% for three years and an APR of 3.196%.

In fact, the advertised APR was incorrect for any loan Low VA Rates was

prepared to arrange or offer.
30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

AAA PoP MAAC
HOO. RCEPR.OO18
fn ka ae LP :

oD
2
3
of
athe
ae
wd
co
hh
ast
ft
VB
o
%;

Accordingly, Low VA Rates misrepresented in these advertisements the
actual APR for loans it was prepared to arrange or offer.

Numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements advertised “‘cash out”
credit terms that Low VA Rates did not actually arrange or offer.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 151,675 mailers to consumers between
September 20, 2017, and January 17, 2018, that advertised “cash out” credit
terms that Low VA Rates did not actually arrange or offer. The
advertisement stated that the borrower could “take $20,000 cash-out for only
$87.48 per month!”

In fact, obtaining any cash-out amount against the consumer’s home equity
was possible only if the consumer had an existing mortgage and refinanced
the entire amount owed on that mortgage as part of a cash-out refinance
mortgage, resulting in a total monthly payment larger than $87.48.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 573,500 mailers to consumers between
April 28, 2017, and November 24, 2017, that advertised $15,000 cash out for
a monthly payment of “as little as $65.”

In fact, obtaining any cash-out amount against the consumer’s home equity
would be possible only if the consumer had an existing mortgage and
refinanced the entire amount owed on that mortgage as part of a cash-out

refinance mortgage, resulting in a total monthly payment larger than $65.
36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe ry
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80 Pace TO ¢
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPS] Of AR coker oo eo : cay BAS

Accordingly, Low VA Rates misrepresented in these advertisements the
actual monthly payment for loans it offered or was prepared to arrange.
Numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements used misleading
statements and rhetorical questions to promote unavailable loan terms.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 1,141,690 mailers to consumers between
January 1, 2016, and September 16, 2016, that prominently referred to a
1.75% fixed simple annual interest rate, and were mailed in an envelope that
stated, “Payment Reduction Entitlement Notice.” The mailer used rhetorical
questions to advertise a 1.75% fixed rate: “[D]oes your VA loan have a fixed
rate of over 1.75%?” and “Why stay at a rate that is higher than 1.75%?” and
“These low rates can’t last long!”

In fact, Low VA Rates was not prepared to arrange or offer a 1.75% fixed
rate, which the mailer’s fine print confirmed: “[w]e do not have fixed
interest rates at 1.75% currently.”

Accordingly, Low VA Rates misrepresented the interest rate for loans
offered or arranged to be offered in these advertisements.

Numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements misrepresented the
payment amount applicable to the advertised loan and the existence, nature,
or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection with the

mortgage.

10
42.

43.

44,

45.

46.

47.

48.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

In another example, Low VA Rates sent 151,675 mailers to consumers
between September 20, 2017, and January 17, 2018, that described a
mortgage with “NO out of pocket costs,” with a rate that required the
purchase of 2.25 to 2.75 discount points.

In fact, the VA permits an Interest Rate Reduction Refinancing Loan
(IRRRL) borrower to finance only two points, 38 C.F.R. § 36.4307(a)(4)(i).
A borrower had to purchase additional points out of pocket to obtain the
advertised rate.

Accordingly, Low VA Rates misrepresented in these advertisements the fees
or costs for loans offered or arranged to be offered.

Numerous Low VA Rates mailers misrepresented the amount of cash
actually available in connection with an advertised mortgage.

For example, Low VA Rates also sent 26,241 mailers to consumers between
January 1, 2016, and April 15, 2016, that promoted a “CASH refund from
current lender.”

In fact, that mailer failed to disclose both that (1) the cash refund would be
limited to the funds in the consumer’s escrow account and (2) the consumer
would be required to fund a new escrow account with Low VA Rates.
Accordingly, Low VA Rates misrepresented in these advertisements the

existence of cash available for loans offered or arranged to be offered.

11
49.

50.

SI.

52.

53.

54.

ARAN RAPER AMA PA ee Pat A RIAD IMA
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

In another example, Low VA Rates sent 26,241 mailers to consumers
between January 1, 2016 and April 15, 2016 that promoted “YOUR 1 Year
Savings” beside an estimated payment on the front of the ad.
In fact, the touted “savings” were not as advertised and resulted from
deferring payments consumers would still ultimately be obligated to make.
Accordingly, Low VA Rates misrepresented in these advertisements the
existence of savings available for loans that it offered or would arrange to
offer.
Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 23-51
were likely to be misled by them.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations

Related to Cost Comparisons

Some Low VA Rates advertisements contained misleading comparisons.
These advertisements misleadingly compared consumers’ actual or
hypothetical payments or rates with payments or simple-annual rates that
would be available under the advertised loan for a period less than the full
term of the loan and did not include a clear and conspicuous comparison to

the information required to be disclosed under § 1026.24(f)(2) and (3), as

12
55.

56.

57.

58.

required by 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(2)(1).

For example, Low VA Rates sent 1,141,690 mailers between January 1,
2016, and September 16, 2016, that promoted a “fixed rate of... 1.75%,” as
well as included a statement that a “better interest rate has enabled our
clients to enjoy an Average Savings of--$294.00 / month on their home loans
in 2015, which is over $3,500/ year!” This constituted an implied
comparison between the advertised product’s payment and the consumer’s
current payment.

But the mailer fails to make the clear and conspicuous disclosures required
by § 1026.24(f)(2) and (3).

For example, Low VA Rates sent 151,675 mailers to consumers between
September 20, 2017, and January 17, 2018, that stated that Low VA Rates
could reduce the interest rate on a consumer’s loan with an advertised rate
that was actually only in effect for the first three years of the 30-year loan
period without disclosing that introductory rate period. While the mailer
disclosed the full payment period in fine print on the back, the comparison
was made on the front.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 54—57

were likely to be misled by them.

13
ARAN RAPER AMA PA ee Pat A RIAD IMA
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
than Sad an at Rad Nat te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

59. The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations
Related to Debt Elimination, or Reducing or Eliminating Existing Debts

60. Numerous Low VA Rates mailers contained misleading claims of debt
elimination.

61. For example, Low VA Rates sent 40,000 mailers between January 20, 2017,
and February 3, 2017, containing the following statements: “[f]reedom from
debt!” in the “Freedom from Debt Program” via the “Freedom from Debt
VA Refinance.” An IRRRL or cash-out loan does not eliminate all of a
consumer’s debt but is instead itself a debt and, as a result, cannot be used to
“free” a consumer of debt.

62. Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 60-61
were likely to be misled by them.

63. The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

Inadequate Disclosures

64. Most of Low VA Rates’ mortgage advertisements stated a period of

repayment, payment amount, finance charge, or simple annual rate of

interest. Under certain sections of Regulation Z, including § 1026.24(c), (d),

14
65.

66.

67.

68.

ARAM SS AMA ~ a omy og eee
2OOH BER AGS Mieerrsnmnat 4 Cua TAP R POA
Sai tee ot ue RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POEUN Ob co ere

and (f), the use of these terms triggers specific disclosure requirements.
Some of the advertisements did not include the other disclosures that are
required, or did not include them in the manner required.

Numerous Low VA Rates advertisements stated the amount of a payment,
but failed to state: (a) the terms of repayment reflecting the consumer’s
repayment obligations over the full term of the loan and (b) the APR.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 151,675 mailers to consumers between
September 20, 2017, and January 17, 2018, that stated a monthly $87.48
payment amount. The mailers did not state the terms of repayment reflecting
the consumer’s repayment obligations over the full term of the loan or the
APR.

Numerous Low VA Rates advertisements stated a simple annual rate of
interest for a loan for which more than one interest rate would apply, but
failed to state an accurate APR for the loan under the accuracy standards set
forth in Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22; and/or failed to
state these terms clearly and conspicuously.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 151,675 mailers to consumers between
September 20, 2017, and January 17, 2018, that prominently displayed a

2.25% introductory rate.

15
69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

The period for the introductory rate and the actual subsequent fully indexed
rate of 3.45% were only disclosed in fine print on the second page.

In another example, Low VA Rates sent advertisements for a variable rate
product described as a “2.25% hybrid (3.196% APRJ) |.”

The advertisement did not disclose the period for the introductory rate or any

subsequent rate for the loan product.

Numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements stated the amount of an
initial payment, but failed to state the amount of each payment that would
apply over the term of the loan; failed to state the period during which each
payment would apply; or failed to state these terms clearly and
conspicuously.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 151,675 mailers to consumers between
September 20, 2017, and January 17, 2018, that promoted a 30-year
variable-rate mortgage with a monthly payment of $573.37.

In fact, this payment was based only on the introductory rate. Low VA Rates
did not disclose each payment and the period for each payment that would
apply over the remaining term of the loan.

In another example, Low VA Rates sent 26,241 mailers to consumers
between January 1, 2016, and April 15, 2016, that disclosed some—but not

all—monthly payments clearly and conspicuously.

16
70.

77.

78.

79.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
than Sad an at Rad Nat te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

While the advertisements prominently disclosed initial monthly payments in
large print on the front of the advertisement, the required payment
information was only disclosed in a block of light gray small print on a

second page.

Some Low VA Rates mailers stated a simple annual interest rate more
conspicuously than the APR.

For example, Low VA Rates sent 138,200 mailers to consumers between
September 15, 2017, and November 24, 2017, that prominently mention a
“3%” simple annual interest rate five times, including twice mentioning rates
“below 3%.”

The advertisement stated this 3% rate without using the term “annual
percentage rate,” and while an APR is indicated in small print on the back of
the mailer, the statement of a simple annual percentage rate of 3% on the

front of the advertisement is more conspicuous.

17
VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION Z
Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a)

80. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a), “[i]f an advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”

81. Low VA Rates violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs
23-51, numerous Low VA Rates advertisements for credit stated specific
credit terms other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged

or offered by the creditor.
Interest Rates Other than the APR, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(c)

82. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(c):

If an advertisement states a rate of finance charge, it shall state
the rate as an “annual percentage rate,” using that term. If the
annual percentage rate may be increased after consummation,
the advertisement shall state that fact.... If an advertisement
is for credit secured by a dwelling, the advertisement shall not
state any other rate [other than the APR], except that a simple
annual rate that is applied to an unpaid balance may be stated
in conjunction with, but not more conspicuously than, the
[APR].

83. Low VA Rates violated § 1026.24(c) because, as described in Paragraphs
77-79, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements stated a simple

annual interest rate more conspicuously than the APR.

18
84.

85.

86.

Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), if an advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t]he terms of repayment, which reflect
the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, including any
balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), (2)ai).

Low VA Rates violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs
65-66, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements set forth the
period of repayment or the amount of any payment, which are triggering
terms under § 1026.24(d)(1)(i1) and (iii), but failed to state the terms of

repayment over the full term of the loan pursuant to § 1026.24(d)(2)(ii).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(i)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(1), if a direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annual rate of interest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) Each simple annual rate of interest that will apply.

In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by
adding an index and margin shall be disclosed based on

19
a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each simple
annual rate of interest will apply; and

(C) The [APR] for the loan. If such rate is variable, the

[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
§§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

87. Low VA Rates violated § 1026.24(f)(2)(1) because, as described in
Paragraphs 67-71, numerous Low VA Rates direct-mail mortgage
advertisements for a loan for which more than one interest rate would apply
stated a simple annual rate of interest, but did not include one or more of the
disclosures required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(2)(1)(A) through (C), or did not

disclose them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(2)(ii).
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)

88. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the amount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that will apply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be

disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

20
89.

90.

AAA MAIER AMMAN
AOAC DBLAATS
Ba Sf tn ST et

~~ toa pay SN REN EPR ~ a ora
Miners t fF Bethea TEV OR POPE earn Bt at ae
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POPS] Of AR coker oo eo : Lake cb ASE yg

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first lien on a
dwelling, the fact that the payments do not include amounts
for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the
actual payment obligation will be greater.

Low VA Rates violated § 1026.24(f)(3)(1) because, as described in

Paragraphs 72-76, numerous Low VA Rates direct-mail mortgage

advertisements stated the amount of a payment but did not include one or

more of the disclosures required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(3)()(A) through

(C), or did not disclose them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in

§ 1026.24(f)(3)(ii).

Misleading Cost Comparisons, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(2)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(2), mortgage advertisements may not:

Mak[e] any comparison .. . between actual or hypothetical credit
payments or rates and any payment or simple annual rate that will be
available under the advertised product for a period less than the full
term of the loan, unless:

(i)

(il)

In general. The advertisement includes a clear and conspicuous
comparison to the information required to be disclosed under §
1026.24(f)(2) and (3); and

Application to variable-rate transactions. If the advertisement is
for a variable-rate transaction, and the advertised payment or
simple annual rate is based on the index and margin that will be
used to make subsequent rate or payment adjustments over the
term of the loan, the advertisement includes an equally
prominent statement in close proximity to the payment or rate
that the payment or rate is subject to adjustment and the time
period when the first adjustment will occur.

21
91.

92.

93.

94.

Low VA Rates violated § 1026.24(1)(2) because, as described in Paragraphs
54-57, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements contained a
comparison between actual or hypothetical payments or rates and a payment
or simple annual rate that would be available under the advertised loan for a
period less than the full term of the loan and did not comply with the
requirements of § 1026.24(1)(2)Q) and (ii).

Misleading Claim of Debt Elimination, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(5)
Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(5), mortgage advertisements may not make
“any misleading claim... that the mortgage product offered will eliminate
debt or result in a waiver or forgiveness of a consumer’s existing loan terms

with, or obligations to, another creditor.”

Low VA Rates violated § 1026.24(1)(5) because, as described in Paragraphs
60—61, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements misleadingly

indicated that the loan advertised would eliminate debt.

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP RULE (REGULATION N)
Misrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly

or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he annual

22
95.

96.

97.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”
applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a
misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

Low VA Rates violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-
30 and 36-38, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements contained

misrepresentations about the APR applicable to a mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations About Fees or Costs, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|t]he existence,
nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer associated with the
mortgage credit product, including but not limited to misrepresentations that
no fees are charged.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is
specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

Low VA Rates violated § 1014.3(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 41-
43, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the existence, nature, or amount of fees or costs to

the consumer associated with a mortgage credit product.

23
98.

99.

100.

Misleading Comparisons, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(h)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(h), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, including:

Any comparison between:

(1) Any rate or payment that will be available for a period less
than the full length of the mortgage credit product; and

(2) Any actual or hypothetical rate or payment.

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Low VA Rates violated § 1014.3(h) because, as described in Paragraphs 54-
57, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements contained a
misrepresentation about a mortgage credit product consisting of a misleading
comparison between: (1) a rate or payment that would be available for a
period less than the full length of the mortgage credit product; and (2) an

actual or hypothetical rate or payment.

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 C.F.R. § 1014.3()

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(), it is a violation for any person subject to the

MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly

24
101.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|t]he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, including but not limited to
misrepresentations that the consumer will receive a certain amount of cash
or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Low VA Rates violated § 1014.3(j) because, as described in Paragraphs 31-
36 and 45-51, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available
to the consumer in connection with the mortgage credit product, including
misrepresentations that the consumer would receive a certain amount of cash

as part of a mortgage credit transaction.

Misrepresentations About Reducing, Eliminating, or Restructuring Debt,

102.

12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(m)
Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(m), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about the
“effectiveness of the mortgage credit product in helping the consumer
resolve difficulties in paying debts, including but not limited to

misrepresentations that any mortgage credit product can reduce, eliminate,

25
103.

104.

105.

106.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

or restructure debt or result in a waiver or forgiveness, in whole or in part, of
the consumer’s existing obligation with any person.” Under 12 C.F.R. §
1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore

material.

Low VA Rates violated § 1014.3(m) because, as described in Paragraphs 60-
61, numerous Low VA Rates mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations that an advertised mortgage credit product could reduce,
eliminate, or restructure debt or result in a waiver or forgiveness, in whole or
in part, of the consumer’s existing obligation with any person.
VIOLATIONS OF THE CFPA
Under the CFPA, it is unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-financial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the

circumstances.

Information that is likely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers.

26
107.

108.

109.

110.

111.

ARAN SAPS ANAS PA ee mht AEA I
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 23-59, Low VA Rates’
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
specific credit terms were available, would be offered, or arranged to be
offered including representations about specific APRs, payment amounts,
loan periods, available cash or credit, fees, cost comparisons, closing costs,
or the variable or fixed nature of rates or payments, when in fact those
specific credit terms were not available or were not the terms that Low VA
Rates was actually prepared to offer, or arranged to be offered.

Low VA Rates’ misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised
credit terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers
acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Low VA Rates’ misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Low VA Rates engaged in deceptive acts and practices in

violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About Consumer Debt Elimination

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 60-63, Low VA Rates’

mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that debt

27
112.

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

elimination was available, would be offered, or arranged to be offered
including representations about debt elimination, when in fact debt
elimination was not available or was not what Low VA Rates was actually
prepared to offer or arrange to be offered.

Low VA Rates’ misrepresentations about debt elimination were likely to
mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Low VA Rates’ misrepresentations about the debt elimination in its
mortgage advertisements were material because they were likely to affect
the conduct or decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Low VA Rates engaged in deceptive acts and practices in
violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 553 1(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Violations of the CFPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule

Under the CFPA, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules
thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5536(a)(1)(A), 5481(14).
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.

Low VA Rates’ violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 80-103, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12

U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

28
ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe SN A
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80 Pane PO of &4
Ba Sf tn ST et BHAA Ed Poke GA aa coe : ghee ark Geb Pd

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

VI.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§

5563, 5565, that:

118. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, and
in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale
of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or by
implication (including through misrepresentations in rhetorical
questions):

1. Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to the following: the total costs;
any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or any material
aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or central
characteristics;

2. The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any

consumer or the benefits of refinancing.

29
119.

APN PAPE RA em at ~ : of pay . 4 PE
AGO Ber ANS Tineiimscnt 4 THan TOPPA OAaN
ol ee al ee ee Le POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PREG GD TS ee et ree e
hn Sad ate RP Bat te AEN Ed PPP OF UE es ee

b. Including or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or design
characteristics:
1. “Cash refund from current lender’;
2. “Debt Elimination”;
3. “Freedom from Debt.”

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or
offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following
affirmative actions:

a. Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and implied
claims (which includes rhetorical questions that express or imply
claims) made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.

b. In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement that states a cash-out
amount for a cash-out refinance mortgage and a monthly payment
amount only for the portion of that mortgage used to obtain that cash-
out amount, Respondent must disclose Clearly and Prominently: (1)
that obtaining the stated cash-out amount requires the consumer to

refinance the entire amount of the consumer’s existing mortgage with

30
ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe Se kA
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pidacd TOfPR/eO0eD Pane St oof &4
Ba Sf tn ST et BHAA Ed Poke GA aa coe YO TALS Jt Let wed

a new loan purchased from Respondent, and (2) the total monthly

payment amount(s) for such a refinanced mortgage.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement, if the advertisement

includes more than one credit product, the terms, features,

characteristics, and benefits of each product must be grouped together
and labeled with a statement Clearly and Prominently indicating the
specific product to which those terms, features, characteristics, or
benefits apply.

If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the

amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the
advertisement must also include, at a minimum:

1. The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

2. The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

3. The amount of each payment that will apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be

disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

31
2020-BCFP-0018 Document1 Filed 10/26/2020 Page 32 of 51

4. The period during which each payment will apply;

5. The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

6. The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and

7. The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate
may be increased after consummation, that fact.

e. In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,

Respondent must:

1. State, Clearly and Prominently, that the product is an
“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” before the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

2. For each simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based
on an index and margin, base the rate on an index value in
effect on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior,
and disclose the index and margin; and

3. State that more information about adjustable rate mortgages is

available at https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201401_ cfpb_

 

booklet charm.pdf.

 

32
ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe S.A kA
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80 Pane Sa of 44
Ba Sf tn ST et BHAA Ed PORIREAS fA coke cole : Lagi aw Leh wh

f. Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be
made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, must be:

1. In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments
triggering the required disclosures;

2. Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

3. Otherwise compliant with Regulation Z, as applicable.

VU.

Advertising Review

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

120. Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the following
affirmative actions:

a. Respondent’s Advertising Compliance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to consumers to ensure that it is
compliant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or

mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims

33
ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe mS. A RA
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOP RI Oea Pane Sd of 44
Ba Sf tn ST et BHAA Ed Poke GA aa coe YO TALS Be Lat wed

made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is
mailed to consumers, the Advertising Compliance Official must
review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any
envelope, mailer, and enclosures—to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,
expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is disseminated. This requirement
applies whether the set is mailed as a batch or in multiple batches. It
also applies whether the set is mailed out at a single time or over a
period.

The Advertising Compliance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made

in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement

34
121.

AAA MAIER AMMAN
AOAC DBLAATS
Ba Sf tn ST et

~*~. os mht AEA I ~ ae ra
Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80 Pane SS of &4
BHAA Ed POPS] Of AR coker oo eo Yak Bot Lat wed

includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availability of the advertised rate(s). If the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all
inputs assumed when calculating that number. If the advertisement
states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
include any materials used to determine the availability of that
amount.
The Advertising Compliance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VI.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a

comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s

35
122.

123.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe mo A
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOP RI Oea Pace SS of &4
Ba Sf tn ST et BHAA Ed Poke GA aa coe YO TALS 2 a PF

mortgage advertising complies with all applicable Federal consumer
financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent
Order; and
b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to the
Enforcement Director within 15 days.

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

MONETARY PROVISIONS

IX.

36
124.

125.

126.

127.

Posey eet
POU

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $1,800,000 to the Bureau.
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or

indemnification from any source, including but not limited to

37
128.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil

money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in any Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

X.
Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

38
129.

130.

131.

132.

AAA MARE ANAS Pn ee A REAR IAA
PYAAR DAMS Paciiyent 4 Ried Toye RS PEAT
Ba Sf tn ST et RPA TAS Pd POPPA FE eo eo ea

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS

XI.

39
133.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe mh RN EA
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80 Pane 20 of 44
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPS] Of AR coker oo eo : cay Th yoy

Reporting Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the

development.

134. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. Identify any and all businesses for which Respondent is the majority
owner, or that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of
their names, telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and

Internet addresses; and

40
AAA MAIER AMMAN
AOAC DBLAATS
Ba Sf tn ST et

rt La PO A ANS Ee ~ St ere
Paciiyent 4 Rian TORSO Gage at af a4
BAAS PEASE Ed SOPRA GAR eo ee : Lhe SP ob A wh od

Describe the activities of any and all such businesses, including the
products and services offered, and the means of advertising,

marketing, and sales.

135. Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

136.

submitted under Paragraph 134 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to

the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by Respondent’s executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;

Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;

Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an

explanation of why any such instances occurred; and

4]
137.

138.

139.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
than Sad an at Rad Nat te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

d. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
XII.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members (if any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.
For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject

matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.

42
RRA PEE Rm ~ . A pans . NPE
AA WA GPrem AWA Poses csascaet 4 Clad TAPIA
ol ee al ee ee Le POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PREG GD TS ee et ree e
hn Sad ate RP Bat RPA TAS Pd SPP 8 APE oa ee!

140. Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.

141. Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and addresses to whom this Consent Order was
delivered under Section XII and a copy of all signed and dated statements
acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order. This in no way affects the
obligation to deliver this Consent Order to any person in the future.

XIII.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

142. Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12
C.F.R. § 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of
twenty-four months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated
the applicable commercial communication regarding any term of any
mortgage credit product, the following evidence of compliance with the

MAP Rule:

43
a.

Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well
as sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to
consumers; and

Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.

44
143.

144.

145.

146.

147.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe mh. a ok wa
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOP RI Oea Pane 25 of 44
Ba Sf tn ST et BHAA Ed Poke GA aa coe : Whe wre Ae Pd

Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage
advertisements disseminated within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least
5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 120(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retain the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,
including any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
behalf; and

C. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses
to those complaints or requests.

Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 145 for at

least 5 years after creation of the record.

Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraphs 142-46

available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

45
148.

149.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Low
VA Rates, LLC, File No. 2020-BCFP-0018,” and send them by overnight
courier or first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by
email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to

requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those

46
150.

151.

152.

153.

RRA PEE Rm ~ . A pans . NPE
AA WA GPrem AWA Poses csascaet 4 Clad TAPIA
ol ee al ee ee Le POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PREG GD TS ee et ree e
hn Sad ate RP Bat RPA TAS Pd SPP 8 APE oa ee!

requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting

requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.

47
154.

155.

156.

ARAN SMARFM ANAS PA ee et emnh oh ES Pe
POSO.RCEELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfeR fe O80
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPPA OF A ke oe

The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 156. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in

this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its

48
157.

158.

159.

160.

RRA PEE Rm ~ . A pay . NPE
SAA Bere Pe NaS Payee cssscamd 4 Cilad FAM OS FGASGH
ol ee al ee ee Le BMW CE a Barty 7 Pe PLEAS ea a ee Or oe
Sao Te Mt BA AEN Pa POPS] Of AR coker oo eo

affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date, except
that Paragraphs 143-44 and 146 will terminate when the specified
recordkeeping periods have expired. All other requirements under this
Consent Order. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that

are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,

49
161.

162.

163.

ARAA AAPM ANAS PA ee mht AEA I mo te era
POOL RE DIAM S Pinaciirpaent 4 Blan To fOoR fee Mage AO af a4
Ba SE BP ASLP PERG Gk og SPR! fA coke oa § TALS oa een Poy

obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

50
 

2020-BCFP-0018 Document1 Filed 10/26/2020 Page 51 of 51

AL
ao
IT IS SO ORDERED, this day of October, 2020.

Kathleen L. Kraninger QS
Director

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

D1
