Release Number 7382-16

 

June 3, 2016

CFTC Charges Haena Park and Her Companies Phaetra Capital GP LLC, a/k/a/ Argenta
Capital GP LLC, Phaetra Capital Management LP, a/k/a Argenta Capital LLC, and Argenta
Group LLC with Misappropriation and Fraud

The Complaint also charges Park and Yul Kaseman with False
Statements to the NFA

Washington, DC — The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced the filing of a civil
enforcement action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, charging Haena Park (Park) and her
companies Phaetra Capital GP LLC, a/k/a/ Argenta Capital GP LLC, Phaetra Capital Management LP, a/k/a Argenta Capital
LLC, and Argenta Group LLC, (collectively, Pool Defendants) with fraudulently operating a commodity pool and
misappropriation of pool participants’ assets. The complaint also charges Park and Yul Kaseman with making false
statements to the National Futures Association.

The CFTC complaint charges that from at least January 2010 through the present (the Relevant Period), Pool Defendants
engaged in at least two fraudulent schemes in violations of the Commodity Exchange Act (Act): (1) the Pool Defendants
fraudulently solicited at least $23 million from members of the public to participate in a commodity pool that traded
futures contracts, as well as leveraged or margined retail off-exchange foreign currencies, and (2) Park, as the agent and
officer Argenta Capital LLC, a predecessor of Phaetra Management, duped at least one investment firm to authorize Park
to manage the firm’s investment account.

The CFTC complaint alleges that the Pool Defendants fraudulently solicited approximately 50 members of the public (pool
participants) who deposited over $23 million into bank accounts opened in Park’s name and/or controlled by Park. In her
solicitations, Park made material misrepresentations and omissions concerning her trading expertise and the purported
profits she generated from her trading. For example, Park falsely claimed that an initial investment in November 2009 of
$1 million achieved a cumulative return of 393.2% and grew to $4,778,229 by February 27, 2015.

According to the Complaint, Park’s trading on behalf of the pool participants resulted in a loss of more than $18 million.
Park hid these losses from the pool participants and falsely and fraudulently represented to existing and prospective pool
participants that their funds were trading at a profit. To perpetrate her fraud, the complaint alleges, Park provided pool
participants with false monthly statements with fabricated data.

Of the pool participants’ assets not lost in trading, the complaint further alleges that Park misappropriated portions of
pool participants’ funds, using some of the funds from pool participants to make payments to other pool participants, in
the manner akin to a Ponzi scheme, and to pay personal credit card bills, make cash withdrawals and pay other non-
business related expenses not authorized by the pool participants.

In its continuing litigation, the CFTC seeks full restitution to defrauded pool participants, disgorgement of any ill-gotten
gains, a civil monetary penalty, permanent registration and trading bans, and a permanent injunction against future
violations of federal commodities laws, as charged.

The CFTC appreciates the assistance of the National Futures Association, the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Southern District of New York, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this action are Greta G. Gao, Luke B. Marsh, Dmitriy
Vilenskiy, Michael P. Geiser and Paul G. Hayeck.

* OK OK OK OK OK K XK

CFTC’s Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory, which warns customers about a type of fraud that involves individuals and firms, often
unregistered, offering investments in commodity pools.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088
Last Updated: June 3, 2016
