Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Armor Holdings, Inc. With FCPA Violations
in Connection With Sales to the United Nations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2011-146

Washington, D.C., July 13, 2011 - The Securities and Exchange Commission
charged Armor Holdings, Inc. with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(FCPA) by participating in a bribery scheme from 2001 through 2006 to obtain
contracts to supply body armor for use in United Nations (U.N.) peacekeeping
missions. The SEC also charged Armor Holdings, a Florida-based manufacturer
of military and law enforcement safety equipment, with failing to properly
account for more than $4 million in commissions from 2001 through 2007 in
violation of the books and records and internal controls provisions of the
federal securities laws.

 

Additional Materials

®» SEC Complaint
® Litigation Release No. 22037

 

Armor Holdings agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by paying nearly $5.7
million in disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and penalties. Armor Holdings
also agreed to pay a $10.29 million fine to settle a parallel criminal
investigation announced by the U.S. Department of Justice today. Since 2010,
the SEC has filed 32 FCPA cases, including the case against Armor Holdings,
and obtained more than $600 million in penalties, disgorgement and interest.

“Illicit payments to U.N. officials are no less reprehensible than bribes to
foreign government officials,” said Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC’s
Division of Enforcement. “The important process of selecting body armor for
peace keepers should not be affected by which company pays the best
bribes.”

Gerald W. Hodgkins, Associate Director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement,
added, “Armor failed to maintain adequate internal controls to prevent its
subsidiary from making illegal payments to win U.N. supply contracts. Just as
troubling, Armor improperly accounted for sales commissions for several
years even after being warned that the accounting treatment was wrong.”

The SEC’s complaint alleges that certain agents of Armor Holdings caused its
U.K. subsidiary to wire at least 92 payments, totaling approximately $222,750
to a third-party intermediary, with the understanding that part of these
payments would be offered to a U.N. official who could help steer business to
Armor Holdings’ U.K. subsidiary. The complaint alleges that agents of Armor
Holdings caused its U.K. subsidiary to enter into a sham consulting agreement
with the intermediary for purportedly providing legitimate services in
connection with the sale of goods to the U.N. The complaint alleges that,
through this bribery scheme, Armor Holdings derived gross revenues of
$7,121,237, and net profits of $1,552,306.

The SEC alleges that another Armor Holdings subsidiary disguised in its books
and records commissions paid to intermediaries who brokered the sale of
goods to foreign governments. Even after being warned by internal and
external accountants that this practice violated U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, Armor Holdings’ subsidiary continued the improper
accounting practice. As a result, approximately $4 million in commissions was
not properly disclosed in the books and records of the company.

On July 31, 2007, after the conduct alleged in the SEC’s complaint had
occurred, Armor Holdings was acquired by BAE Systems, Inc., an indirect
wholly owned U.S. subsidiary of Britain’s BAE Systems PLC. Accordingly,
Armor Holdings is no longer an issuer of securities.

The SEC’s complaint charges Armor Holdings with violating Sections 30A,
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Without
admitting or denying the allegations, Armor Holdings consented to the entry
of a permanent injunction against further violations and agreed to pay
$1,552,306 in disgorgement, $458,438 in prejudgment interest, and a civil
money penalty of $3,680,000. Armor Holdings also agreed to comply with
certain undertakings regarding its FCPA compliance program. The settlement
is subject to court approval. Armor Holdings conducted a thorough
investigation to determine the scope of the improper payments and
cooperated with the SEC’s inquiry.

Richard J. Kutchey and Gregory G. Faragasso conducted the SEC’s
investigation. The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the Fraud
Section of DOJ’s Criminal Division and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The
SEC’s investigation is continuing.
HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Gerald W. Hodgkins
Associate Director

SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4719

Gregory G. Faragasso
Assistant Director

SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4734

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2011/2011-146.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 07/13/2011
