UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

RECEIVED CFTC

 

   

In the Matter of: s ‘5,
3 =
% e
Emilio José Heredia Collado, Kona —es
CFTC Docket No. 21-04 Office of Proceedings

Proceedings Clerk
7:03 am, Mar 25, 2021

Respondent.

a ae a ae a ee

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

L INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
Emilio José Heredia Collado (“Heredia” or “Respondent’”) has violated Sections 6(c)(3) and
9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(3), 13(a)(2) (2018), and Regulation 180.2, 17 CFR. § 180.2
(2020) of the Commission Regulations (“Regulations”). Therefore, the Commission deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein and to
determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Respondent admits the facts set forth below, acknowledges that his conduct violated the Act and
Regulations, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c)
and (d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”) and acknowledges service of this Order.

II. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. Summary

From as early as June 2012 through at least August 2016 (“Relevant Period”), while
employed as a fuel oil trader in the San Francisco office of a commodity trading firm (“Company
A”) and then the U’S. affiliate of a multinational commodity trading company (“Company B”)
that acquired Company A (collectively, the “Trading Company”), Respondent and others at the
Trading Company sought to increase profits from its oil products trading by manipulating a U.S.
price-assessment benchmark relating to physical fuel oil products. Respondent and others
engaged in the manipulation to benefit the Trading Company’s trading positions.

Respondent engaged in the manipulation, and directed and induced personnel under his
supervision to engage in the manipulation, in order to manipulate the benchmark prices of fuel
oil products reported by S&P Global Platts (“Platts”), a price reporting agency, for the purpose
of benefiting the Trading Company’s related trading positions, including more than
approximately 100 multimillion-dollar oil-product trades with a large, state-owned enterprise
(the “SOE”) that were priced in reference to a Platts benchmark. Respondent engaged in this
conduct with the specific intent to manipulate the price of a commodity in interstate commerce
and to create artificial prices, and Respondent could and did create artificial prices. By this
conduct, Respondent engaged in attempted manipulation and manipulation, in violation of
Sections 6(c)(3) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(3), 13(a)(2) (2018), and Regulation 180.2,
17 CE.R. § 180.2 (2020).

In accepting Respondent’s Offer, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s entry into a
formal cooperation agreement (“Cooperation Agreement”) with the Division of Enforcement
(“Division”), which sets forth the terms of his agreement to cooperate with the Commission and
the Division in connection with any investigation, litigation, or proceeding to which the
Commission is a party relating to the subject matter of this Order and/or as described in the
Cooperation Agreement.

B. Respondent

Emilio José Heredia Collado is a former fuel oil trader who resides in California.
Throughout the Relevant Period, Heredia was a trader at the Trading Company. Heredia has
never been registered with the Commission.

C. Facts

During the Relevant Period, Respondent engaged in and oversaw trading of a variety of
oil products on behalf of the Trading Company, including fuel oil and bunker fuel, a type of fuel
oil.

1. The Trading Activity and Benchmark Exposure

Among other things, the Trading Company’s trading activities engaged in or overseen by
Respondent included large-quantity trades, sometimes called “cargos,” of fuel oil. Respondent
also oversaw smaller-quantity trades of bunker fuel, sometimes called “bunkers,” typically with
end-users such as ship owners. Among the cargo trades engaged in or overseen by Respondent
were numerous cargo trades with the SOE (the “Cargo Trades”), including those for delivery to
and from the Los Angeles market.

During the Relevant Period, more than approximately 100 Cargo Trades with the SOE
were priced in reference to a benchmark price assessment determined by Platts called the Bunker
Fuel Oil 380 CST 3.5% Ex-Wharf Los Angeles (the “Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark”), plus or
minus a specified dollar amount negotiated by the parties, on specified days (“Cargo Pricing
Days”). Like other Platts benchmarks, Platts widely reported the daily Los Angeles Bunker
Benchmark as part of its subscription market-reporting services, which information end-users
and other market participants used as price benchmarks in the shipping and bunker industries.

During the Relevant Period, Platts generally determined the Los Angeles Bunker
Benchmark for a given day based primarily on bids to purchase, offers to sell, and trades in
bunker fuel during a defined period of time called the “window” that Platts-authorized market
participants reported to Platts, and which Platts then widely reported to subscribers.! Each day,
before commencement of the trading window, Platts typically reported to market participants a
market price level referred to as the “peg.” The peg typically served as the starting price at the
beginning of the trading window for Platts-authorized market participants’ bids or offers. Platts
typically determined the peg in part based on information about trades or other market
information that market participants such as the Trading Company reported to Platts.

On Cargo Pricing Days the Trading Company’s trading positions generally had
significant price exposure to the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark. When the Cargo Trades were
sales by the Trading Company to the SOE, the Trading Company’s Cargo Trade position would
be more profitable if the average Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark on the Cargo Pricing Days
was higher: if the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark rose, the Trading Company would sell to the
SOE at a higher price. Conversely, when the Cargo Trades were purchases by the Trading
Company from the SOE, the Trading Company’s Cargo Trade positions would be more
profitable if the average Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark on the Cargo Pricing Days was lower:
if the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark fell, the Trading Company would buy from the SOE at a
lower price.

2. The Manipulation

During the Relevant Period, Respondent and others at the Trading Company manipulated
the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark in order to increase the Trading Company’s profits on the
Cargo Trades priced by reference to the benchmark, including by distorting the prices of the
Cargo Trades in the Trading Company’s favor. Typically, in furtherance of the manipulation,
Respondent, or others at the Trading Company acting in concert with Respondent, submitted
generally increasing bids or generally decreasing offers to Platts during the trading window,
which Platts then reported to its subscribers. By such conduct, Respondent and others at the
Trading Company intended to create, and did create, artificially high (or artificially low) Los
Angeles Bunker Benchmarks on Cargo Pricing Days not reflective of legitimate forces of supply
and demand, so that the Trading Company could sell cargos to the SOE at artificially high prices
(or buy cargos from the SOE at artificially low prices). Respondent engaged in the price
manipulation, directed and induced personnel under his supervision to engage in the price
manipulation, and observed others at the Trading Company engaging in such conduct with
respect to one or more Platts benchmarks. As a result of the manipulation, the Trading Company
earned significant additional profits or savings.

 

! As relevant to the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark during the Relevant Period, the bids, offers, and trades reported
in the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark window were generally for a trade size of 1,000 metric tons of bunker fuel.
3. Examples

The following are two examples of the manipulation. In each example, Respondent acted
with the intent to manipulate the benchmark and create an artificial price, and succeeded in
creating artificial prices.

First, in or around May 2013, the Trading Company entered into a Cargo Trade for the
sale of approximately 40,000 metric tons of fuel oil to the SOE, priced by reference to the
average Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark on May 28, 29, and 30, 2013. Respondent directed a
Trading Company employee to submit bids to Platts during the window, and to increase the
prices of those bids approximately 27 times on May 28, 23 times on May 29, and 9 times on May
30, 2013. This trading activity led to an artificial Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark on each day
that was significantly higher than the day’s starting peg, to the benefit of the Trading Company’s
positions in the Cargo Trade that priced on those days.? The Trading Company’s activity in the
window on the Cargo Pricing Days of May 28, 29, and 30, 2013, resulted in improper additional
revenue to the Trading Company of several hundred thousand dollars.

Second, in or around October 2015, the Trading Company entered into two Cargo Trades
together consisting of the purchase of approximately 40,000 metric tons of fuel oil from the
SOE. Both trades were priced in reference to the average daily Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark
on October 23, 26, and 27, 2015. Respondent directed a Trading Company employee to submit
offers to Platts during the window, and to decrease the prices of those offers approximately 39
times on October 23, 38 times on October 26, and 22 times on October 27, 2015. This trading
activity led to an artificial Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark on each day that was significantly
lower than the day’s starting peg, to the benefit of the Trading Company’s positions in the Cargo
Trades that priced on those days.*? The Trading Company’s activity in the window on the Cargo
Pricing Days of October 23, 26, and 27, 2015, resulted in improper savings to the Trading
Company of more than several hundred thousand dollars.

4, Cooperation

Respondent has entered into the Cooperation Agreement with the Division setting forth
the terms of his agreement to cooperate with the Commission and the Division in connection
with any investigation, litigation, or proceeding to which the Commission is a party relating to
the subject matter of this Order and/or as described in the Cooperation Agreement.

 

2 On May 28, 2013, Platts assessed the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark at or around $26.50 above the day’s starting
peg of $585 per metric ton. On May 29, 2013, Platts assessed the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark at $23.00 above
the day’s starting peg of $607.50 per metric ton. And on May 30, 2013, Platts assessed the Los Angeles Bunker
Benchmark at $8.50 above the day’s starting peg of $628.50 per metric ton. The Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark
thus was assessed at an average of $19.33 above the peg on those three days.

3 On October 23, 2015, Platts assessed the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark at $39.50 below the day’s starting peg of
$230 per metric ton. On October 26, 2015, Platts assessed the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark at $38.00 below the
day’s starting peg of $230 per metric ton. On October 27, 2015, Platts assessed the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark
at $22.00 below the day’s starting peg of $210 per metric ton. The Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark was assessed at
an average of $33.17 below the peg on those three days.
if. LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Price Manipulation in Violation of Sections 6(c)(3) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, and
Regulation 180.2

Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes it unlawful for “[a]ny person to manipulate or attempt to

manipulate the price of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or
subject to the rules of any registered entity.” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2018).

Section 6(c)(3) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(3) (2018), prohibits the manipulation or
attempted manipulation of the price of any swap, or of any commodity in interstate commerce, or
for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, and Regulation 180.2 makes
it “unlawful .. . directly or indirectly, to manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any
swap, or of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the
rules of any registered entity.” 17 C.F.R. § 180.2 (2020).

Respondent specifically intended to manipulate the Los Angles Bunker Benchmark, in
order to benefit, among other things, the Trading Company’s contracts with SOE that were
priced in reference to the Los Angles Bunker Benchmark. In furtherance of that intent,
Respondent, directly and indirectly (such as through others), submitted bids, offers, and trades to
Platts during the Los Angles Bunker Benchmark trading window in order to skew the Platts
benchmark, and consequently the value of the Trading Company’s Cargo Trade positions that
were priced in reference to the benchmark, in the Trading Company’s favor. Through these
actions, Respondent and others at the Trading Company could and did cause artificial prices in
the Los Angeles Bunker Benchmark and thus the Cargo Trades. By this conduct, Respondent
violated Sections 6(c)(3) and 9(a)(2) of the Act and Regulation 180.2.

IV. FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Sections 6(c)(3)
and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(3), 13(a)(2) (2018), and Regulation 180.2,
17 CE.R. § 180.2 (2020).

V. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT
Respondent has submitted the Offer in which Respondent:
A. Acknowledges service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in
this Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the
Commission based on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Admits to all of the findings made in this Order;
D. Waives:

1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;
4, Judicial review by any court;
5. Any defense based on the statute of limitations applicable to any charges

brought, including any sanctions or relief, in connection with this Order;

6. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the
Commission’s staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

7. Any and all claims that Respondent may possess under the Equal Access
to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2018) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2018), and/or
the rules promulgated by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part
148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2020), relating to, or arising
from, this proceeding;

8. Any and all claims that Respondent may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104—
121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat. 847, 857-68 (codified as amended in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding; and

9, Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding
or the entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary
penalty or any other relief:

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely
of the findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the
Offer;

Consents to additional proceedings to determine what, if any, additional sanctions
or relief may be assessed against him, as provided in Part VI.B of this Order. In
connection with such additional proceedings, Respondent further consents that:
(a) the findings of fact in Section II of this Order shall be accepted as and deemed
true by the Presiding Officer; (b) Respondent will be precluded from arguing that
Respondent did not violate the federal laws as described in Sections II and IV of
this Order; and (c) Respondent may not challenge the validity of Respondent’s
consents and agreements in the Offer or this Order; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order
that:

1. Makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Sections
6(c)(3) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(3), 13(a)(2) (2018), and
Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R. § 180.2 (2020),
2. Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(3) and
9(a)(2) of the Act, and Regulation 180.2;

3. Orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), plus post-judgment interest, within
twenty (20) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “CMP
Obligation”);

4, Orders that Respondent be permanently prohibited from, directly or
indirectly, engaging in trading on or subject to the rules of any registered
entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act,

7 U.S.C. § la(40) (2018), and all registered entities shall refuse
Respondent trading privileges; and

5. Orders Respondent to comply with the conditions and undertakings
consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(3) and 9(a)(2) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(3), 13(a)(2) (2018), and Regulation 180.2,
17 CFR. § 180.2 (2020);

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000), plus post-judgment interest, within twenty (20)
business days of the date of entry of this Order. If the CMP Obligation is not paid
in full or otherwise satisfied within twenty business days of the date of entry of
this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the
Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to

28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2018).

Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is imposing the CMP Obligation
at this time based upon his cooperation in a Commission investigation and any
investigation, litigation, or proceeding to which the Commission is a party
relating to the subject matter of this Order and/or as described in the Cooperation
Agreement (collectively, the “Proceedings”), pursuant to the terms of the
Cooperation Agreement, and his undertaking to continue to cooperate pursuant to
the terms of the Cooperation Agreement, and as set forth below in Part VIL.D.3.
If at any time the Division obtains information indicating that Respondent,
following the entry of this Order: (1) knowingly provided materially false or
misleading information or materials to the Commission in the investigation, this
proceeding or in a related proceeding, or the Proceedings; or (11) violated the
terms of his Cooperation Agreement with the Division—such as his commitment
to continue to cooperate—the Division may, at its sole discretion and without
prior notice to Respondent, petition the Commission to re-open this matter and
seek an order imposing further sanctions or relief, such as directing that
Respondent pay a different civil monetary penalty. Respondent may contest by
way of defense in any resulting administrative proceeding whether he knowingly
provided materially false and misleading information, or violated the terms of his
Cooperation Agreement with the Division, but he may not: (1) contest the
findings in this Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including
but not limited to any statute of limitations defense.

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by
electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s
check, or bank money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic
funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact
Marie Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment
instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall
accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the
Respondent and the name and docket number of this proceeding. The Respondent
shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment
to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three
Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent is permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in
trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in
Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2018)), and all registered entities
shall refuse Respondent trading privileges.

Respondent shall comply with the following conditions and undertakings set
forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements

Respondent agrees that neither Respondent nor any of Respondent’s
agents or employees under Respondent’s authority or control shall take
any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly,
any findings or conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create,
the impression that this Order is without a factual basis; provided,
however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondent’s:

(i) testimonial obligations; or (11) right to take legal positions in other
proceedings to which the Commission is not a party. Respondent shall
comply with this agreement, and shall undertake all steps necessary to
ensure that all of Respondent’s agents and/or employees under
Respondent’s authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement.

Respondent agrees that Respondent shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. enter into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as
that term is defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (2020), for
Respondent’s own personal account(s) or for any account(s) in
which Respondent has a direct or indirect interest;

b. have any commodity interests traded on Respondent’s behalf:

c. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or
entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account
involving commodity interests;

d. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the
purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

e. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring
such registration or exemption from registration with the
Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9),

17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2020); and/or

f. act as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a),
17 C-F.R. § 3.1(a) (2020)), agent or any other officer or employee
of any person (as that term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act,
7U.S.C. § 1a(38) (2018)), registered, required to be registered, or
exempted from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9).

Cooperation with the Commission

Respondent shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission,
including the Division, in accordance with the terms set forth in the
Cooperation Agreement, and in any investigation, civil litigation, or
administrative proceeding to which the Commission is a party related to
the subject matter of this action or any current or future Division
investigation or Commission action related thereto. As part of such
cooperation, Respondent agrees to:

a. preserve and produce to the Commission in a responsive and
prompt manner as requested by Division staff, all relevant non-
privileged documents, information, and other materials wherever
located, in the appropriate possession, custody, or control of
Respondent;

b. use Respondent’s knowledge and skill to explain transactions,
interpret information and terminology or identify new and
productive lines of inquiry;

c. prepare and appear for interviews and testimony at such times and
places as requested by Division staff;

d. respond completely and truthfully to all inquiries and interviews,
when requested to do so by Division staff;

e. identify and authenticate relevant documents, execute affidavits or
declarations, and testify completely and truthfully at depositions,
trial, and other judicial proceedings, when requested to do so by
Division staff:

f. enter into tolling agreements, when requested to do so by Division
staff, during the period of cooperation;

g. waive any defense based on the statute of limitations applicable to
any charges brought in connection with the Proceedings;

h. accept service by mail, electronic mail, or facsimile transmission
of notices or subpoenas for documents and/or testimony at
depositions, hearings, trials, or in connection with the Proceedings;

i. appoint Respondent’s attorney(s) as agent to receive service of
such notices and subpoenas;

j. waive the territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local rules in
connection with requests or subpoenas of Division staff; and

k. serve by hand delivery or by next-day mail all written notices and
correspondence required by or related to this Agreement to the
Director of the Division of Enforcement, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, 1155 21st Street, NW, Three Lafayette
Centre, Washington, DC 20581, with copy by e-mail to the Deputy
Director of the Division of Enforcement, Eastern Regional Office,
unless otherwise directed in writing by Division staff.

10
4. Partial Satisfaction

Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of any partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation
shall not be deemed a waiver of Respondent’s obligation to make further
payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to
seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

5. Change of Address/Phone

Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full his obligations as set forth
in the Cooperation Agreement and this Order, Respondent shall provide
written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to
Respondent’s telephone number and mailing address within ten (10)
calendar days of the change.

* * *

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

Doth | Peblp.

Christopher J. Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

By the Commission.

 

Dated: March 25, 2021

1]
