#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, October 11, 2017

Florida Businessman Pleads Guilty to Foreign Bribery Charges in Connection With Venezuela
Bribery Scheme

A partial owner of several Florida-based energy companies pleaded guilty today to foreign bribery charges for his role in a scheme to corruptly
secure contracts from Venezuela's state-owned and state-controlled energy company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA).

Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Abe Martinez of the
Southern District of Texas and Special Agent in Charge Mark Dawson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security
Investigations’ (ICE-HSI) Houston office made the announcement.

Fernando Ardila Rueda (Ardila), 49, of Miami, pleaded guilty in federal court in Houston, to one count of conspiracy to violate the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and one count of violating the FCPA. U.S. District Judge Gray H. Miller of the Southern District of Texas accepted
the guilty plea. Sentencing is scheduled for Feb. 8, 2018.

According to admissions made in connection with his plea, Ardila conspired with U.S.-based businessmen Abraham Jose Shiera Bastidas (Shiera)
and Roberto Enrique Rincon Fernandez (Rincon) to pay bribes and other things of value to PDVSA purchasing analysts. The bribes were paid to
ensure that Shiera’s and Rincon’s companies were placed on PDVSA bidding panels and in order to obtain or retain business with PDVSA. From
2008 through 2014, while he was sales director, manager and partial owner of several of Shiera’s companies, Ardila provided entertainment and
offered bribes to PDVSA officials based on a percentage of the value of contracts the officials helped to award to Shiera’s companies.

Rincon, Shiera and two other former employees of Shiera’s companies have also pleaded guilty in the case. Including Ardila, the Justice
Department has announced a total of 10 individuals have pleaded guilty and are pending sentencing as part of a larger, ongoing investigation
by the U.S. government into bribery at PDVSA.

ICE-HSI is conducting the ongoing investigation with assistance from IRS-Criminal Investigation. Trial Attorneys Aisling O'Shea and Jeremy R.
Sanders of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys (AUSA) John Pearson and Robert S. Johnson of the Southern
District of Texas are prosecuting the case. AUSA Kristine Rollinson of the Southern District of Texas is handling the forfeiture aspects of the
case,

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs and the Swiss Federal Office of Justice also provided assistance.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA

enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Component(s):
Criminal Division
USAO - Texas, Southern

Press Release Number:
17-1138

Updated October 11, 2017
