cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Announces Action Against Citizens Bank,
N.A.

JAN 30, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) filed suit
against Citizens Bank, N.A. (Citizens), a national banking association headquartered in
Providence, Rhode Island. The Bureau's complaint alleges violations of the Truth in Lending
Act (TILA) and TILA’s implementing Regulation Z, including violations of amendments to
TILA contained in the Fair Credit Billing Act (FCBA) and the Credit Card Accountability
Responsibility and Disclosure Act (CARD Act).

As described in the complaint, the Bureau alleges that for several years Citizens violated
TILA, as amended by the FCBA, and Regulation Z by failing to properly manage and
respond to credit card disputes. The complaint alleges that Citizens automatically denied
consumers’ billing error notices and claims of unauthorized use in certain circumstances.
The complaint further alleges that Citizens failed to fully refund finance charges and fees
when consumers asserted meritorious disputes or fraud claims, and failed to send
consumers required acknowledgement letters and denial notices in response to billing
error notices.

The Bureau further alleges that for several years Citizens violated TILA by violating
provisions passed under the CARD Act. The Bureau alleges that Citizens violated TILA and
Regulation Z by failing to provide credit counseling referrals to consumers who called
Citizens’ toll-free number designated for that purpose. These alleged violations of TILA—
including those under the FCBA and the CARD Act—and Regulation Z also constitute
violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act.

The Bureau filed its complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Rhode Island on
January 30, 2020. The Bureau's complaint seeks, among other remedies, an injunction
against defendants and the imposition of civil money penalties.

The complaint is not a finding or ruling that the defendant has violated the law.

The complaint is available at: https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_citizens-
bank_complaint_2020-01.pdf i (cfob.gov/documents/8428/cfpb_citizens-bank_complaint_
2020-01.pdf)

 

 

ttt

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
