Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Seven Former Siemens Executives with
Bribing Leaders in Argentina

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2011-263

Washington, D.C., Dec. 13, 2011 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today charged seven former Siemens executives with violating the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for their involvement in the company's decade-
long bribery scheme to retain a $1 billion government contract to produce
national identity cards for Argentine citizens.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 22190

» SEC Complaint
® Spotlight on FCPA Cases

 

Siemens was previously charged with FCPA violations and paid $1.6 billion to
resolve the charges with the SEC, U.S. Department of Justice, and Office of the
Prosecutor General in Munich.

The SEC alleges that the executives who perpetuated the scheme worked at
Siemens and its regional company Siemens Argentina. One of the executives
had left Siemens and acted as a payment intermediary in the scheme.
Siemens paid more than $100 million in bribes to such high-ranking officials
as two former Argentine presidents and former cabinet members. The
executives falsified documents including invoices and sham consulting
contracts, and participated in meetings in the United States to negotiate the
terms of bribe payments. They used U.S. bank accounts to pay some of the
bribes.

"Business should flow to the company with the best product and the best
price, not the best bribe," said Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC's Division
of Enforcement. "Corruption erodes public trust and the transparency of our
commercial markets, and undermines corporate governance."

In a parallel criminal action, the Department of Justice announced charges
against former executives and agents of Siemens. They are charged with
conspiracy to violate the FCPA and the wire fraud statute, money laundering
conspiracy and wire fraud.

According to the SEC's complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, the
scheme lasted from approximately 1996 to early 2007. Initially, the bribes
were paid to secure a $1 billion contract to produce national identity cards
known as Documentos Nacionales de Identidad (DNI) for every Argentine
citizen. After a change in Argentine political administrations resulted in the
DNI contract being suspended and then canceled, Siemens paid additional
bribes in a failed effort to revive the DNI contract. When the company later
instituted an arbitration proceeding to recover its costs and expected profits
from the canceled contract, Siemens paid additional bribes to suppress
evidence that the contract originally had been obtained through corruption.

The former Siemens and Siemens Argentina executives charged by the SEC
each had a role in authorizing, negotiating, facilitating, or concealing bribe
payments in connection with the DNI contract:

e Uriel Sharef - A former managing board member at Siemens from July
2000 to December 2007. He met in the United States with payment
intermediaries and agreed to pay $27 million in bribes to Argentine
officials in connection with the DNI contract.

e Ulrich Bock - Former Commercial Head of Major Projects for Siemens
Business Services (SBS) from October 1995 to 2001. As the officer
responsible for the DNI contract, he authorized bribe payments to
Argentine government officials.

e Stephan Signer -Replaced Bock as Commercial Head of Major Projects
for SBS and later became Head of Business Operations and Finance at
Siemens IT Solutions and Services. He authorized the payment of bribes
to government officials in Argentina.

e Herbert Steffen -CEO of Siemens Argentina from 1983 to 1989 and
again in 1991, and Group President of Siemens Transportation Systems
from 1996 to 2003. Due to his longstanding connections in Argentina
and Latin America, Steffen was recruited by Sharef and met directly
with Argentine officials and offered bribe payments on behalf of
Siemens.

e Andres Truppel -CFO of Siemens Argentina from 1996 to 2002. He
regularly communicated with Argentine government officials regarding
illicit bribe payments and participated in U.S.-based meetings where
bribes were negotiated and promised.

e Carlos Sergi -A former board member of Siemens Argentina and a
business consultant for Siemens Argentina. His primary role was to
serve as a payment intermediary between Siemens and Argentine
government officials in connection with the DNI contract.

e Bernd Regendantz -CFO of SBS from February 2002 to 2004. He
authorized two bribe payments totaling approximately $10 million on
Siemens’ behalf.

According to the SEC's complaint, approximately $31.3 million of the $100
million in bribes paid were made after March 12, 2001, when Siemens became
a U.S. issuer subject to U.S. securities laws. As a result of the bribe payments
it made, Siemens received an arbitration award in 2007 against the
government of Argentina of more than $217 million plus interest for the DNI
contract. In August 2009, after settling bribery charges with the U.S. and
Germany, Siemens waived the arbitration award.

The SEC complaint alleges that Bock, Regendantz, Sergi, Sharef, Signer,
Steffen, and Truppel each violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, and aided and abetted Siemens' violations of Section 30A. The
complaint also alleges that they violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and
Rule 13b2-1 thereunder by authorizing or directing others to falsify
documents in furtherance of the bribery scheme. Regendantz violated Rule
13b2-2 by signing false internal certifications pursuant to the Sarbanes Oxley
Act (SOX). They each also aided and abetted Siemens’ violations of Exchange
Act Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) by substantially assisting in the
company's failure to maintain internal controls to detect and prevent bribery
of government officials in Argentina, and by substantially assisting in the
improper recording of the bribe payments in Siemens' accounting books and
records.

Regendantz settled the SEC charges without admitting or denying the
allegations by consenting to the entry of a final judgment that permanently
enjoins him from committing future violations. He paid a €30,000
administrative fine ordered by the Munich prosecutor (equivalent to $40,000
in U.S. dollars).

The SEC's investigation was conducted by Tracy L. Price, Robert Dodge, and
Denise Hansberry of the Enforcement Division's FCPA Unit that is headed by
Kara Brockmeyer. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Department
of Justice's Fraud Section, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District
of New York, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Office of the
Prosecutor General in Munich.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Kara Brockmeyer
Director, SEC Enforcement Division's FCPA Unit
202-551-4767

Tracy L. Price

Assistant Director, SEC Enforcement Division's FCPA Unit
202-551-4490

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2011/2011-263.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 12/19/2011
