°

pmPly. eae PRT | ie

a eo A me SUN bak 4

girth J Sal

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION,

100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC 20549,

Plaintiff,
Vv.

URIEL SHAREF,
ULRICH BOCK,
CARLOS SERGI,
STEPHAN SIGNER,
HERBERT STEFFEN,
ANDRES TRUPPEL, and
BERND REGENDANTZ,

Defendants.

 

‘COMPLAINT

11-CV-. si
ECF CASE
Jury Trial Demanded

 

Plaintiff, United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission’’)

alleges:

 

SUMMARY

1. This action involves a bribery scheme that took place over the course of
more than a decade. From approximately 1996 until early 2007, senior executives at
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft (“Siemens”) and its regional company in Argentina, Siemens
S.A. (“Siemens Argentina”), paid scores of millions of dollars in bribes intended for top

government officials in Argentina, including two Presidents and Cabinet Ministers in two

Presidential administrations.

 

 
2. The bribes were initially paid to secure a $1 billion government contract
(the “DNI Contract’) to produce national identity cards, or Documentos Nacionales de
Identidad, for every Argentine citizen. After paying bribes to obtain it, Siemens was
awarded the DNI Contract in 1998. Later, after a change in Argentine political
administrations resulted in the DNI Contract being suspended, and then canceled,
Siemens paid additional bribes in a failed effort to bring the contract back into force.
Still later, after the company instituted an arbitration proceeding to recover its costs and
expected profits from the canceled DNI Contract, Siemens paid additional bribes to
suppress evidence that it had originally obtained the Contract through corruption.
Excluding evidence of bribery cut off a potential defense to Siemens’ arbitration claim
and ensured that Siemens would finally receive the economic benefit that its bribery

scheme was intended from the start to provide.

3. Over the course of the bribery scheme, Siemens paid an estimated total of
over $100 million in bribes, approximately $31.3 million of which were made after
March 12, 2001, when Siemens became subject to U.S. securities laws. As a result of the
bribes it paid, Siemens in 2007 received an award in arbitration against the government

of Argentina of over $217 million, plus interest.

4, During the relevant 2001-07 time period, defendants Uriel Sharef, Ulrich
Bock, Carlos Sergi, Stephan Signer, Herbert Steffen, Andres Truppel, and Bernd
Regendantz each had a role in authorizing, negotiating, facilitating, or concealing bribe
payments in connection with the DNI Contract. The most senior of these was defendant
Uriel Sharef, who was a member of Siemens’ Managing Board, or Vorstand. Siemens

employed a group of consultants, designated the Project Group and led by defendant
Sergi, to serve as payment intermediaries between the company and the bribed Argentine

government officials.

5. Each of the defendants violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) by engaging in the bribery of government officials in
Argentina. Each defendant also aided and abetted Siemens’ violations of Section 30A.
The defendants violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder by.
falsifying documents, including invoices and sham consulting contracts, in furtherance of
the bribery scheme. Defendant Regendantz violated Rule 13b2-2 by signing false
internal certifications pursuant to the Sarbanes Oxley Act (“SOX”). All defendants aided
and abetted Siemens’ violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B)
by substantially assisting in Siemens’ failure to maintain internal controls to detect and
prevent bribery of government officials in Argentina, and by substantially assisting in the

improper recordation of the bribe payments in Siemens’ books and records.

JURISDICTION
6. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),

and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa].

7. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] or 28 U.S.C. § 1391(d). Certain of the acts and transactions

constituting the violations occurred in this District.

8. The defendants directly or indirectly made use of the means or
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a national
securities exchange in connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of

business alleged in this complaint.
DEFENDANTS

9. Uriel Sharef, 2 German citizen, was a Siemens Managing Board’ Member
from July 2000 to December 2007. During this period, he served as regional “Coach” for
Siemens Power Generation, Siemens Power Transmission and Distribution, and the
| Americas. From October 2000 to December 2007, Sharef was a member of Siemens’ |
Corporate Executive Committee. Sharef met in New York, NY, with payment:
intermediaries and agreed to pay $27 million in bribes to Argentine officials in |
connection with the DNI Contract. Sharef also enlisted subordinates to conceal the

payments by circumventing Siemens’ internal accounting controls.

10. Ulrich Bock, a German citizen, was from October 1995 through 2001 the
Commercial Head of Major Projects for Siemens Business Services (“SBS”), the Stemens
operating group responsible for managing the DNI Contract. As the officer responsible
for the DNI Contract, Bock authorized bribe payments to Argentine government officials.
Bock participated in a meeting in Miami, Florida, at which bribes to Argentine officials
were negotiated and promised. Bock also provided false testimony in two arbitration
proceedings, one of which was filed in Washington, D.C., in an effort to conceal

Siemens’ corrupt payments and recover its expected profits from the DNI Contract.

11. Stephan Signer, a German citizen, replaced Bock as Head of Major
_ Projects for SBS in approximately July 2001, and he remained in the position until 2002.
From 2002 through at least 2008, Signer was the Head of Business Operations and

Finance at Siemens IT Solutions and Services, then a business division of Siemens.

 

t In accordance with German law, Siemens has a Supervisory Board and a Management Board. The
Supervisory Board is a rough equivalent to the board of directors of an American company. The Managing
Board, or “Vorstand,” fulfills the duties of senior management and includes the company’s Chief Executive

Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”).
4
Signer authorized the payment of bribes to government officials in Argentina. Some of

the bribes were paid to bank accounts in the United States.

12. Herbert Steffen, a German citizen, was the CEO of Siemens Argentina
from 1983 through 1989, and again in 1991. He was the Group President of Siemens
Transportation Systems from 1996 to 2003. Because of his longstanding connections in
Argentina and Latin America, Steffen was recruited by Sharef to facilitate the payment of
bribes in connection with the DNI Contract. Steffen met directly with senior government
officials in Argentina and offered bribe payments to them on Siemens’ behalf. Steffen
urged defendant Regendantz to authorize bribe payments that ultimately were made to
bank accounts in the United States. Steffen also participated in one or more telephone
conversations with defendant Sharef, who called him from the United States in

connection with the bribery scheme.

13. Andres Truppel, an Argentine citizen, was the CFO of Siemens
Argentina from 1996 to 2002. Truppel regularly communicated with Argentine
government officials regarding illicit bribe payments. Truppel conveyed Argentine bribe
demands to more senior officials at Siemens and urged them to make the bribe payments,
Truppel participated in meetings in Miami, Florida, and New York, NY, in which bribes
to Argentine officials were negotiated and promised. He caused Siemens to pay, and
promise to pay, millions of dollars in bribes in an effort to retain the DNI Contract. Some

of the bribes were paid via bank accounts in the United States.

14. Carlos Sergi, an Argentine citizen, was a board member of Siemens
Argentina until at least 2002. From the late 1990’s until at least 2004, Sergi held himself

out as a business consultant for Siemens Argentina. In fact, Sergi’s primary role,
continuing to 2007, was to serve as a payment intermediary between Siemens and
Argentine government officials in connection with the DNI Contract. While purporting
to act as a business consultant for Siemens Argentina, Sergi paid bribes to Argentine
government officials on Siemens’ behalf. Some of the bribes were paid via bank

accounts in the United States.

15. Bernd Regendantz, a German citizen, was CFO of Siemens Business
Services (“SBS”) from February 2002 to 2004. Upon his arrival at SBS in 2002,
Regendantz, who had not earlier been involved in the DNI Contract, was urged by other |
Siemens officials, including defendants Signer and Steffen, to pay bribes that had |
previously been negotiated. Regendantz initially resisted making the payments.
However, when he sought guidance from several top Siemens officials, Regendantz
received consistent instructions that he understood to mean that he should make the
payments. Regendantz then authorized two bribe payments totaling approximately
$10 million on Siemens’ behalf. Some of the amounts were paid into bank accounts in
the United States. With Regendantz’s knowledge and approval, the nature of the
payments was concealed through the use of fictitious invoices, and the payments were
recorded inaccurately in SBS’s and Siemens’ books and records. Regendantz falsely

certified to the accuracy and truthfulness of SBS’s financial statements

RELEVANT ENTITIES
16. Siemens Aktiengesellschaft (“Siemens”) is a German corporation with
its executive offices in Munich, Germany. Siemens is one of the world’s largest
manufacturers of industrial and consumer products. It employs approximately 402,000

people and operates in approximately 190 countries worldwide. Siemens reported net
revenue of approximately $100 billion and net income of approximately $8.6 billion for

its fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.

17. Siemens had over 874 million common shares outstanding and a market
capitalization of over $1 20 billion as of June 30, 2011. Since March 12, 2001 Siemens’
common shares have been registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C. § 781(b)]. Siemens’ American Depository Shares, each
representing one common share, trade on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”)

under the symbol “SI.”

18. Prior to a reorganization in 2008, Siemens operated through a complex
array of operating groups and regional companies. The operating groups were divisions
within Siemens and not separate legal entities. ‘The regional companies were wholly or
partly-owned subsidiaries. Among the operating groups during the relevant period were
Siemens Business Services and Power Transmission and Distribution. Among the

regional companies was Siemens S.A. (Argentina).

19. | On December 12, 2008, the Commission entered into a settlement with
Siemens in connection with the company’s bribe payments in Argentina and other
countries. Under that settlement, Siemens consented to an injunction against future
violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and
disgorged wrongful profits of $350 million. At the same time, Siemens paid a criminal
fine of $450 million to settle parallel criminal charges brought by the Department of
Justice. Siemens Argentina entered a guilty plea to violations of Exchange Act Section

30A for its payment of bribes in connection with the DNI Contract: Siemens also paid
criminal fines in Germany to the Munich Public Prosecutor in the amounts of

€395 million and €201 million.

20. Siemens S.A. (Argentina) (“Siemens Argentina”), headquartered in
Buenos Aires, Argentina, was a wholly-owned regional company of Siemens. Beginning
in the late 1990’s, Siemens Argentina worked in conjunction with SBS and other Siemens —
affiliates to secure and retain the DNI Contract. Siemens Argentina’s financial

statements were consolidated into those of Siemens.

21. Siemens Busines Services GmbH & Co. OHG (“SBS”), headquartered in
Munich, Germany, was a Siemens operating group that provided consulting, oversight
and management services in connection with the DNI Contract. SBS’s financial

statements were consolidated into those of Siemens.

22. Siemens IT Services S.A. (“SITS”) was a special purpose entity organized
under Argentine law to bid on and execute the DNI Contract. SITS was wholly-owned
by Siemens-Nixdorf Information System GmbH, a Siemens operating group that later

merged with SBS. SITS’s financial statements were consolidated into those of Siemens.

23. Siemens Power Transmission and Distribution (“Siemens PTD”)
formerly headquartered in Erlangen, Germany, was a Siemens operating group
responsible for manufacturing large scale power systems. PTD was not directly involved
in the DNI Contract. However, the defendants concealed certain of the DNI Contract
bribe payments and circumvented Siemens’ internal controls by routing the payments

through unrelated PTD contracts.

24. The Project Group, headquartered in Central and South America, was an
informal designation for a collection of entities that served as intermediaries through

8
which Siemens made corrupt payments to Argentine government officials. The Project
Group was led and controlled by Carlos Sergi and included his family members and close
associates as principals. The Project Group was created to coordinate the DNI Contract
bribe payments and to provide a single point of contact for Siemens in negotiating its

bribe payments to Argentine government officials.

FACTS

A. Bribes Paid to Obtain the DNI Contract and to Revive the
Contract after its Suspension by the Argentine Government

25. - In 1994, the Argentine government, headed by then President Carlos
Menem, issued a tender for bids on a contract to replace the country’s manually-created
national identity booklets with state-of-the-art identity cards. The estimated cost of the
project was $1 billion, Siemens and its Argentine affiliate SITS submitted a bid in
December 1996 and won the project in February 1998. A contract was executed by SITS
with the Argentine Ministry of the Interior the following November. . Throughout this
period, and indeed over the life of the DNI Contract, bribes were sought by and paid to
“Argentine government officials, up to and including the President of Argentina and

Cabinet Ministers.

26. In August 1999, after Argentina became enveloped in a debt crisis,
President Menem suspended the DNI Contract while he campaigned for re-election.
President Menem subsequently lost his re-election bid to. Fernando De la Rua, who just
one month later notified Siemens Argentina that the DNI Contract would be terminated

unless Siemens agreed to renegotiate its terms..

27. In December 2000, Uriel Sharef, a Siemens Managing Board Member, and

Herbert Steffen, then Group President of Siemens Transportation Systems, met

9
personally with new President De la Rua and other senior Argentine government officials —
to discuss the DNI Contract. At the meeting, President De la Rua demanded significant
price concessions to the contract. Siemens agreed to the concessions in return for

President De la Rua’s promise to issue a national decree mandating the purchase of new

DNI cards for all Argentine citizens, and thus re-authorizing the DNI Contract.

28. As defendants Sharef and Steffen negotiated with President De la Rua,
other Siemens managers, including defendant Bock, met with the intermediaries who had
earlier been involved in paying the bribes on Siemens’ behalf that had enabled Siemens
to obtain the DNI Contract in the first place. The payment intermediaries were
designated the “Project Group” and were led by Carlos Sergi, a former Siemens official.
Members of the Project Group advised the Siemens officials that Siemens would have to
pay the remaining unpaid but promised bribes to officials connected with the former
Menem administration, as well as make additional bribe payments to members of the new
- Dela Rua administration, including to President De la Rua himself, in order to have the
DNI Contract reauthorized. Sergi and members of the Project Group told the Siemens
officials that the past and present Argentine officials were demanding a total of
$27 million in corrupt payments to secure the entry of a decree by President De la Rua

reauthorizing the DNI Contract.

29. Bribery was openly discussed at Bock’s meetings with the Project Group,
as documented by Bock’s contemporaneous handwritten notes, as well as internal
memoranda and meeting minutes prepared by Project Group members. Bock’s notes
from a November 22, 2000, meeting with defendant Sergi refer to “topics.. discussed in

mutual agreement” with others, including Truppel. The notes list the initials of Argentine

10
officials and the amounts due to each. In total, the notes identify $50.5 million either due
or paid to government officials in connection with the DNI Contract, including

$16 million to former President Menem. A November 26, 2000, memorandum, written
by members of the Project Group, recites that all future bribe payments will be made

through the Project Group and that “[t]he commitment with future third parties is 27 M.”

30. On January 3, 2001, Siemens, via its operating group SBS, signed a $27
million sham consulting agreement with MFast Consulting AG (“MFast”), an entity
controlled by the Project Group. Bock co-signed the sham contract on behalf of SBS.

The MFast contract did not require MFast to provide any bona fide services. Instead, the |
sole purpose of the contract was to provide a vehicle through which Siemens could funnel

bribe payments to Argentine government officials.

B. Sham Consulting Agreement with a Former Argentine
Minister of Justice

31. In addition to the sham agreement with MFast, Siemens executives found
other ways to exert a corrupt influence on the DNI Contract. In March 2001, the same
month that Siemens became listed on the NYSE, defendant Truppel pressured the
management of SITS to sign a $1 million sham consulting agreement with a company
‘ owned by a former Argentine Minister of Justice. The former Justice Minister reportedly
had close ties to the head of the Sindicatura General de la Nacion (“SIGEN”), the
national audit board charged with approving the renegotiated DNI contract. SIGEN’s
role in Argentina may roughly be compared to that of the General Accountability Office
in the United States. Defendant Truppel told Siemens officials that the former Justice
Minister could influence SIGEN’s decision to recommend approval of the revised DNI

Contract.

1]
32. The former Justice Minister’s firm provided no bona fide services on behalf
of Siemens. Instead, it was paid solely for the purpose of exerting influence on Siemens’
‘behalf with SIGEN. SITS made an upfront payment of $605,000 to the former Justice

Minister’s firm on March 20, 2001, and a second payment of $211,750 on July 18, 2001.

C. Cancellation of the DNI Contract

33. Despite the efforts of Siemens and its affiliates to reauthorize the DNI
Contract through the bribery of government officials, the De la Rua administration on
May 18, 2001, cancelled the DNI Contract. Days later, SBS gave notice of its intent to
terminate all subcontracts related to the 10} ect, including the $27 million sham

consulting agreement with MFast.

34. In an effort to have the DNI Contract reinstated, defendant Sharef and
Siemens’ then-CEO formed a “crisis management team” to assume control over the DNI
project. The team members included defendants Truppel, Steffen, and Signer, who

replaced Bock as Head of Major Projects at SBS in July 2001.

35. At about the same time, Siemens prepared to initiate an arbitration

' -~proceeding with the World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes (“ICSID”) in Washington, DC, to recover its lost profits and out of pocket costs
resulting from the cancellation of the DNI Contract. In July 2001, Siemens sent a letter
to the ICSID arbitration board in Washington, DC, to. preserve its right to file an ICSID
arbitration claim. This triggered a six-month period for settlement negotiations with the

Argentine government.

36. Notwithstanding the DNI Contract’s cancellation, defendant Sergi and the

Project Group advised Siemens that the Argentine government officials who had helped

12
Siemens secure the DNI Contract still expected to be paid the bribes they had been
promised but had not yet received. Sergi also demanded that he be retmbursed for the
bribes that he had advanced to government officials on Siemens’ behalf. If the payment
demands were not met, Sergi threatened to go public with corruption allegations against |

Siemens.

37. In order to preserve the viability of Siemens’ ICSID arbitration claim, it
was necessary for the company to-exclude from the proceeding any evidence that
Siemens had originally obtained the DNI Contract through bribery. Evidence of
corruption in the award of the contract would have presented a potential defense for the
Argentine government. In order to suppress that evidence, the defendants authorized and
paid additional bribes to Argentine officials. Sergi, Truppel, Steffen, and Bock
continuously urged Siemens management to funnel more money to Argentine officials.
Truppel urged Siemens management to pay the outstanding promised bribes to Argentine
government officials, not only to avoid disqualification from the ICSID arbitration, but -
also to prevent potential physical harm to him and other Siemens employees in

Argentina.

38. On July 6, 2001, Truppel and Bock met with Sergi and his associates in
Miami, Florida, to devise a method of paying the $27 million in bribes that had originally
_been intended to be made via the then-terminated sham MFast contract. Bock agreed to
pay Sergi $27 million to satisfy the bribery demands by the Argentine officials, and Sergi
gave instructions that the money be sent to Sergi’s Swiss bank account within thirty days.
Following the Miami meeting, Bock advised Signer of the agreement to pay $27 million

through Sergi to the Argentine officials. Bock later attempted to initiate the payment, but

13
was unable to persuade Siemens’ legal and compliance departments that the company had

a legitimate commercial basis for making it.

D. SBS Authorizes an “Advance Payment” of up to $10 Million

39. Defendant Regendantz became the Chief Financial Officer of SBS in
February 2002. As soon as Regendantz arrived at SBS, defendants Signer, Steffen, and
Truppel pressured him to authorize additional bribe payments to Argentina. Defendant
Signer told Regendantz that Siemens had paid or promised approximately $70 million to
various Argentine officials to obtain the DNI Contract, and that $27 million remained

owing to the Argentine officials even though the contract had been cancelled.

40. Initially Regendantz, who had no prior dealings with the DNI Contract,
resisted authorizing the bribes. Regendantz had several meetings and telephone
conversations with defendant Steffen in the Spring of 2002 in which Steffen urged
Regendantz to authorize bribe payments from SBS to Argentine officials. In April 2002,
Steffen told Regendantz that SBS had a “moral duty” to make at least an “advance
payment” of $10 million to Sergi and the other payment intermediaries. Steffen claimed
that he, Truppel, and other employees of Siemens Argentina were being threatened

because the long-promised bribes remained unpaid.

41. Over a period of weeks, Regendantz sought guidance from Siemens’ Head
of Compliance, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, and two members of
the Managing Board, one of whom was defendant Sharef. In each instance, Regendantz .
explained that the payment demands lacked any legitimate commercial basis and that he
was reluctant to authorize them. In each instance, Regendantz’s superiors gave every

' indication that they were familiar with the DNI Contract and with the nature of the

14
payment demands. And in each instance, his superiors told Regendantz that it was his
responsibility to find a solution to.the problem. Regendantz understood these responses

from his superiors to be an instruction that he authorize the bribe payments.

42. Ultimately, Regendantz authorized the advance payment of up to
$10 million in bribes to Argentine officials, through the Project Group. A portion of |

those bribes were paid to bank accounts in New York and Miami.

43. During this period, Siemens was negotiating with the Argentine
government pursuant to the preservation period allowed by the ICSID arbitration. In
May 2002, Siemens filed its ICSID arbitration claim, demanding over $550 million from
the Argentine government for the terminated DNI Contract. The defendants were aware

of the pending ICSID arbitration.

E. $5.2 Million Payment Through Meder Holding Corporation

44. The first tranche of the $10 million advance payment authorized by
Regendantz consisted of a $5.2 million payment to Argentine officials that was routed
through an intermediary in Uruguay. Defendants Truppel and Signer, with the help of
defendant Bock and subordinate SBS employees, generated a series of fictitious

documents to facilitate the payment and to obscure the audit trail.

45. Inthe summer of 2002, defendant Signer had Bock and a subordinate SBS
employee sign a backdated consulting agreement with Meder Holding Corporation S.A.
(“Meder”), a Uruguay front company controlled by the Project Group. Signer also
instructed the SBS employee to sign backdated invoices from Meder totaling

approximately $5.2 million.

15
46. In May 2002, defendant Truppel sent Signer the Meder invoices, which
were backdated to 2001 and early 2002. The invoices were purportedly for “market
development in Chile and Uruguay” and included wire transfer instructions to a Standard
Chartered bank account in New York.. The references to “market development in Chile
and Uruguay” were false. The payments were not made in connection with any such

work.

47. Regendantz instructed a subordinate to handle the paperwork related to the
bribe payments to Argentina. On July 19, 2002, Regendantz’s subordinate authorized the
$5.2 million payment to Meder, and on July 22, 2002, SBS wired the funds to the
designated Standard Chartered bank account in New York. The payment was incorrectly

recorded in Siemens’ books and records.

48. The second tranche of the $10 million “advance,” in the amount of

approximately $4.7 million, was not made until February 2004

F. January 2003 Meeting in New York Between Defendants
Sharef and Sergi to Negotiate Further Bribe Payments

49. Following the $5.2 million Meder payment, defendant Sergi and the Project
Group continued to relay bribery demands from Argentine officials. On January 16,
2003, defendant Sharef met with Sergi in New York, NY, to negotiate the terms of
Siemens’ payment. One difficulty in responding to the demands was that, because the
DNI Contract had been terminated by the Argentine government and work on the DNI
proj ect had ceased, Siemens officials lacked a plausible business justification for making

the payments.

16
50. At the New York meeting, Sharef and Sergi addressed this problem by
devising a strategy to conduct a sham arbitration involving the then-terminated MFast
contract as a means for funneling the bribe payments to government officials in
Argentina. Siemens owed no bona fide payment obligation under the MFast contract
because the contract itself was a sham arrangement. But if MFast initiated an arbitration
proceeding against Siemens for wrongful termination and then either prevailed or
negotiated a settlement, the resulting award would be available to satisfy the longstanding
bribe demands. The sham MFast arbitration did eventually take place, but it was not

initiated until 2005.

G. $11.79 Million Payment through Dubai Intermediary in 2003

51. In the first half of 2003, much of the promised $27 million remained
unpaid, and the payment demands by Sergi on behalf of Argentine officials continued.
Defendants Signer, Truppel, and Steffen urged Sharef to meet the demands and make the
additional payments. In mid-2003, on Sharef’s instruction, the Commercial Head of
Siemens PTD, Truppel, and others initiated a plan to have Siemens PTD, a division
unrelated to the DNI project, funnel €9.6 million (or approximately $11.79 million) to
Sergi and the Project Group through an intermediary company in Dubai. By making the
bribe payment through PTD, the payment could be falsely recorded in Siemens’ books
and records as an expense incurred in connection with an active PTD project, rather than

with the then-terminated DNI Contract.

52. In March 2003, Sharef called the Commercial Head of PTD and told him

that Sharef needed PTD’s help in transferring funds from Siemens PTD to South America

17
in connection with an SBS project. Sharef told the PTD official that there was an urgent

need for the funds, and that the money would be reimbursed to PTD later.

53. On defendant Sharef’s instruction, the PTD official contacted the Dubai
payment intermediary and asked for its assistance in making the transfer. Sharef
instructed the PTD official to put the Dubai intermediary in touch with defendant
Truppel, who would provide payment details. Pursuant to Truppel’s payment
instructions, the Dubai intermediary transferred €9.6 million to bank accounts in the
Bahamas maintained by the Project Group for one or more Argentine government
officials. Using phony invoices to conceal the corrupt nature of the payment, the Dubai

intermediary charged the payment to a PTD contract unrelated to the DNI project.

54. _ Because the €9.6 million payment was for the benefit of an SBS project, in
. late 2003 PTD sought rermbursement of the payment amount from SBS. Defendant
Regendantz instructed his subordinate to find a way to process the reimbursement
without disclosing the underlying nature of the corrupt payment. To support the
reimbursement, the subordinate and his counterpart at PTD fabricated justifications for
fictitious invoices totaling €9.6 million ($11.79 million). PTD submitted the phony
invoices to SBS between December 2003 and February 2004. SBS made the |

reimbursement payments to PTD in 2004.

H. $4.7 Million Payment to Companies Linked to the Project
Group in 2004

55. The second tranche of the $10 million “advance payment” authorized by
Regendantz was made in 2004. In late 2003, defendant Sharef informed the then-CEO of
Siemens Argentina that Sharef had reached an agreement to pay an additional

$4.7 million in bribes to government officials through Sergi. Sharef instructed the

18
Siemens Argentina CEO to provide defendant Sergi with whatever information Sergi

needed to prepare the fictitious invoices needed to support the $4.7 million payment.

56. Sergi, on instructions from Sharef, submitted eight fictitious invoices
totaling $4.7 million to the Siemens Argentina CEO, who then forwarded them to
Regendantz. The invoices were purportedly for “consulting services” provided to SBS
by four companies, each affiliated with MFast. The invoices were not linked to any

identifiable contracts, nor were they linked to any projects on SBS’s books and records.

57. Regendantz instructed his subordinate to handle payment of the invoices.
The subordinate noticed an error in one of the invoices and called the Siemens Argentina
CEO, telling him, “if we have to produce crap, we should at least do it correctly.” The
Siemens Argentina CEO submitted revised invoices. Regendantz’s subordinate then
generated a memo, backdated to October 10, 2003, to support the sham projects and
expenses reflected by the invoices. Defendant Signer instructed an SBS subordinate to

sign the backdated, fictitious invoices supporting the $4.7 million payment.

58. Payments to two of the companies identified on the invoices were made in
February 2004 to bank accounts held at the International Bank of Miami. Siemens

improperly accounted for the payments as “consulting expenses” in its books and records.

59. Between 2002 and 2006, Regendantz signed quarterly and annual
certifications pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act falsely representing that the financial
statements of SBS “do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state
a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading.” The quarterly certifications

also falsely represented that the financial statements of SBS “fairly present in all material

19
respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.” The quarterly and
annual certifications were presented to the auditors of SBS and Siemens in connection

with the companies’ quarterly reviews and annual audits.

I. The ICSID Arbitration in Washington, DC

60. In May 2002, Siemens instituted an arbitration proceeding against the
government of Argentina through the ICSID in Washington, DC, seeking $550 million in
lost profits and expenses as a result of Argentina’s allegedly wrongful termination of the
DNI Contract. Had the government of Argentina introduced evidence showing that
Siemens had obtained the DNI Contract through bribery, that evidence would have stood
as a defense to the company’s breach-of-contract claim. Siemens, however, succeeded in
‘keeping any evidence or allegation of bribery out of the ICSID arbitration until
September 2005, by which time the evidence was too late to be considered. Siemens
suppressed the evidence of corruption through the false testimony of defendants Truppel,
Bock, and Sharef, and by paying the bribes demanded by Sergi and the Project Group,

which had threatened to disclose the corrupt nature of the DNI Contract.

61. In September 2005, the government of Argentina did invoke corruption as
a defense to Siemens’ arbitration claim. Despite knowing the truth -- that the DNI
Contract had indeed been obtained through large-scale bribery -- Siemens officially
denied the corruption allegations. Argentina ultimately lost its ability to assert the

defense on the ground that the defense had not been timely raised.

62. On February 6, 2007, Siemens was awarded $217,838,430 in the ICSID
arbitration against the government of Argentina for Siemens’ loss of investment, plus

interest. This award represented the economic benefit that Siemens’ bribery scheme had

20
long sought to obtain. However, in August 2009, after settling bribery charges with the
Commission, the Department of J ustice, and the Munich Public Prosecutor, Siemens

waived the ICSID award.

J. The MF ast Arbitration
63. On March 15, 2005, MFast initiated a private arbitration proceeding against
SBS with the International Chamber of Commerce (“ICC”) in Zurich; Switzerland, to
recover the $27 million in bribe payments that it had been promised for Argentine
officials under the corrupt contract it signed with SBS in January 2001. Siemens did not |
attempt to defend the ICC arbitration on the grounds that the MFast contract was part of
an illegal bribery scheme involving the DNI Contract. Nor did Siemens reveal that the
ICC arbitration was a sham proceeding concocted by defendants Sharef and Sergi during
their meeting in New York. Instead, once the arbitration commenced, Siemens’
management withheld any evidence of corruption from the ICC proceeding and quickly
settled with MFast. The settlement kept the MFast bribery scheme from coming to light
and thereby endangering the hundreds of millions of dollars at stake in the then-pending

ICSID arbitration.

64. Due to his involvement in the DNI project as Head of Major Projects,
defendant Bock was called to testify in both the ICSID and MFast arbitration
proceedings. Instead of-revealing the corruption and bribery surrounding the DNI and
MFast contracts, Bock concealed the illicit bribery activity in Argentina. In return for
Bock’s silence, defendant Signer and others arranged for Siemens to pay Bock and a
family member approximately $316,000 from 2005 to 2007 through sham consulting

agreements.

21
- 65. On November 9, 2006, despite knowing that the sole purpose of the MFast
contract was to funnel bribes to Argentine government officials, Siemens’ management
settled the ICC arbitration by agreeing to pay MFast $8.8 million. Payment was made in

January 2007.

66. The $8.8 million payment was itself a bribe designed to satisfy defendant
Sergi and the Argentine government officials who were owed money, and to keep them
from revealing the extensive bribery surrounding the DNI Contract. The settlement
agreement with MFast expressly barred Sergi and his associates from “involv{ing]
themselves in [the ICSID Arbitration Proceedings], either directly or indirectly, or in any
other manner influenc[ing] said proceedings, even if only by passing on information....”
The settlement agreement also barred Sergi and his associates from serving as witnesses

in the ICSID proceedings.

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF —
FIRST CLAIM
[Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act]

67. Paragraphs 1 through 66 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

68. As described above, defendants Sharef, Bock, Steffen, Truppel, Signer,
Sergi, and Regendantz corruptly offered, promised to pay, or authorized payments to one
or more persons, while knowing that all or a portion of those payments would be offered,
given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to foreign officials for the purpose of
- influencing their acts or decisions in their official capacity, inducing them to do or omit
to do actions in violation of their official duties, securing an improper advantage, or
inducing such foreign officials to use their influence with foreign governments or

instrumentalities thereof to assist Siemens in obtaining or retaining business.

22
69. Byreason of the foregoing, and pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Exchange
Act [15 U.S.C. § 78t(e)], defendants Sharef, Bock, Steffen, Truppel, Signer, Sergi, and
Regendantz violated, and aided and abetted Siemens’ violations of, and unless enjoined
will continue to violate, and aid and abet violations of, Section 30A of the Exchange Act.

[15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1]

SECOND CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and
. Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder]

70. Paragraphs 1 through 69 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

71. As described above, defendants Sharef, Bock, Steffen, Truppel, Signer,
Sergi, and Regendantz knowingly circumvented or knowingly failed to implement a
system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsified books, records or accounts
as described in Section 13(6)(2) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)] or falsified .
or caused to be falsified books, records or accounts subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

72. As described above, defendant Regendantz directly or indirectly made or
caused to be made a materially false or misleading statement to an accountant in

connection with an audit, review or examination of the financial statements of Siemens.

73. By reason of the foregoing, defendants Sharef, Bock Steffen, Truppel,
Signer, Sergi, and Regendantz violated, and unless enjoined will continue to violate,
Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5)] and Rule 13b2-1
thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-1], and, as to defendant Regendantz, Rule 13b2-2

thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-2].

23
THIRD CLAIM
[Aiding and Abetting Violations
of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

74. Paragraphs 1 through 73 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

75. As described above, defendants Sharef, Bock, Steffen, Truppel, Signer,
Sergi, and Regendantz knowingly provided substantial assistance to Siemens’ failure to
make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and

- fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets.

76. By reason of the foregoing, pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78t(e)], defendants Sharef, Bock, Steffen, Truppel, Signer, Sergi, and
Regendantz aided and abetted Siemens’ violations of, and unless enjoined will continue

to aid and abet violations of, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C.
§ 78m(b)(2)(A)].
FOURTH CLAIM
[Aiding and Abetting Violations
of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]

77. Paragraphs 1 through 76 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

78. As described above, defendants Sharef, Bock, Steffen, Truppel, Signer,
Sergi, and Regendantz knowingly provided substantial assistance to Siemens’ failure to
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide
reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions were executed in accordance with
management’s general or specific authorization; and (ii) transactions were recorded as
| necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (ID

to maintain accountability for its assets.

24
79. By reason of the foregoing, pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78t(e)}, defendants, Sharef, Bock, Steffen, Truppel, Signer, Sergi, and
Regendantz aided and abetted Siemens’ violations of, and unless enjoined will continue

to aid and abet violations of, Section 13(b2)(B) of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C.
§ 78m(b)(2)(B)]
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment: |

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining defendants Sharef, Bock, Steffen,
Truppel, Signer, Sergi, and Regendantz from violating Exchange Act Sections 30A and
13(b)(5), and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and, as to defendant Regendantz, Rule 13b2-2
thereunder, [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1 and 78m(b)(5); and 17 C.F.R. §§ 240.13b2-1 and
240,1362-2] and from aiding and abetting violations of Exchange Act Sections 30A,

 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, 78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)].

B. Ordering defendants to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a

result of their illegal conduct, including prejudgment interest;

25
Tee arr ere le Se te 7

C. . Ordering defendants to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Exchange Act

Sections 21(d)(3) and 32(¢) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d)(3) and 78ff{c)]; and |

D. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: December 13, 2011

26

Respectfully submitted,

(Lu, Le

 

- Paul W. Kisslinger (PK 0764)

Robert I. Dodge (RD 0433) -
Kara Brockmeyer

Tracy L. Price

Denise Hansberry

Attorneys for Plaintiff,

U.S. Securities and Exchange

Commission
100 F Street, N.E.

' Washington, DC 20549-5949

(202) 551-4427 (Kisslinger) _
KisslingerP @sec.gov

(202) 551-4421 (Dodge)
DodgeR@sec. gov
