Release Number 7521-17
January 26, 2017

CFTC Orders Chicago-based E*TRADE Securities LLC and E*TRADE Clearing LLC to Paya
$280,000 Civil Monetary Penalty for Failure to Retain Required Records and Failure to
Diligently Supervise

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today issued an Order filing and settling
charges against E*TRADE Securities LLC (E*TRADE Securities), an Introducing Broker, and E*TRADE Clearing LLC
(E*TRADE Clearing), a Futures Commission Merchant, for non-compliance with applicable record-keeping rules and failure
to diligently supervise. Both entities have their headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.

The CFTC Order finds that between October 2009 and January 25, 2014, E*TRADE Securities did not preserve and
maintain certain audit trail logs for their customers. Similarly, E*TRADE Clearing did not preserve and maintain customer
audit trail logs after becoming registered as a Futures Commission Merchant in February 2013.

Violations of Regulations 1.31 & 1.35

The Order finds that by not preserving and maintaining these records, E*TRADE Securities and E*TRADE Clearing violated
Section 4g(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) and CFTC Regulations 1.31 and 1.35.

Regulation 166.3 Violation

In addition, the Order finds that E*TRADE Securities and E*TRADE Clearing violated CFTC Regulation 166.3 by failing to
implement policies and procedures to ensure the retention of these records and failing to respond to a previous warning
from its vendor that it did not preserve these records

The CFTC Order requires E*TRADE Securities and E*TRADE Clearing jointly to pay a $280,000 civil monetary penalty and
to cease and desist from further violations of the CEA, as charged. To prevent similar problems in the future, the Order
also requires E*TRADE Securities and E*TRADE Clearing to improve their recordkeeping procedures by updating their
policies and procedures and providing appropriate training to officers and employees regarding the CEA’s recordkeeping
requirements.

The Order recognizes the cooperation of E*TRADE Securities and E*TRADE Clearing in this matter.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Aimée Latimer-Zayets, A. Daniel Ullman Il, and
Paul G. Hayeck.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: January 26, 2017
