Case TT6-cr20055-KMW BDocurrient 3 Entered on FLSD Docket 07/24/2018 Page lof 3s

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

No.__\$-MS- O84-TORRES

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
v.

FRANCISCO CONVIT GURUCEAGA, et al.,

 

 

 

Defendants.
/
CRIMINAL COVER SHEET
1. Did this matter originate from a matter pending in the Northern Region of the United
States Attorney’s Office prior to October 14, 2003? Yes__X No
2. Did this matter originate from a matter-pending in the Central Region of the United States

Attorney’s Office prior to September 1, 2007? Yes xX No

 

Respectfully submitted,

BENJAMIN G. GREENBERG
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

BY:
FRANCISCO R. MADERAL
ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
Fla. Bar. No. 41481
99 N. E. 4th Street
Miami, Florida 33132-2111
TEL (305) 961-9159
FAX (305) 530-7976
francisco.maderal@usdoj.gov
Case i T8-cr20055-KMW BDocurrient 3 Entered on FLSD Docket 07/24/2018 Page 2 of 35

AO 91 (Rev. 08/09) Criminal Complaint

 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

for the
Southern District of Florida

 

United States of America ) S
v. ) T OS\NA- (TORRE
. ) Case No. \3-MS
FRANCISCO CONVIT GURUCEAGA, et al., )
)
)
Defendant(s)
CRIMINAL COMPLAINT

I, the complainant in this case, state that the following is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

 

 

On or about the date(s) of 12/2014-7/2018 in the county of Miami-Dade in the
Southern District of Florida , the defendant(s) violated:
Code Section Offense Description
Title 18, United States Code, Conspiracy to Committ Money Laundering

Sections 1956(h) & 1956(a)(2)
Title 18, United States Code, Interstate and Foreign Travel in Aid of Racketeering Enterprises
Section 1952

This criminal complaint is based on these facts:
SEE ATTACHED AFFIDAVIT.

if Continued on the attached sheet.

Ag

Complainant’ S si aiGture

George F, Fernandez, S/A, HSI

Printed name and title

Sworn to before me and signed in my presence.

 

 

Date: . V. a» 241 ¥

- /* s signature ‘
City and state: Miami, Florida Edwia G. orres;U.S. Magistrate Judge

 

 

< ~ Printed name and title
Case L18-cr-20655-KMM Docurnent 3 Entered on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 3 of 3s

AFFIDAVIT
I, GEORGE F. FERNANDEZ, Special Agent with Homeland Security Investigations
_ CHS?”), having been first duly sworn, do hereby depose and state as follows: |
INTRODUCTION

1. I am an investigative or law enforcement officer of the United States within the
meaning of Section 2510(7) of Title 18 of the United States Code. That is, I am an officer of the
United States who is empowered by law to conduct investigations of, and to“make arrests for,
offenses enumerated in Title 18, United States Code, Section 2516(1). a |

2. I have not necessarily included in the affidavit each and every fact known to me
about the matters set forth herein, but only those facts and circumstances that I believe are

/
sufficient to establish probable cause for the Court to sign a criminal complaint.

3. The statements contained in this ‘flidavit are based upon my investigation,
information provided by other individuals; including sworn law enforcement officers and
confidential sources, and upon my experience and training as a federal agent and the experience
and training of other federal agents.

4. All dates, times, and amounts stated herein are approximate. Quotations and

_ Summaries of recorded conversations are based on transcriptions with side-by-side Spanish-to-
English translations or the actual Spanish-language recordings. In reviewing the transcripts, I
relied on both the translations and my knowledge of Spanish, as well as that of others.

5. This affidavit is made in support of a criminal complaint charging the following
defendants, with conspiracy to commit money laundering, in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 1956(h), and violations of the Travel Act, in violation of Title 18, United States

t

Code, Section 1952.
Case i T8-cr20055-KMW BDocurrient3 Entered on FLSD Docket 07/24/2018 Page 4 of 35

Defendants & Others Involved _

6. Francisco CONVIT Guruceaga is a Venezuelan national. CONVIT, along with
CONSPIRATOR 2, is often referred to as a “Bolichico” or member of the “boliburgués.”

7. Jose Vincente AMPARAN Croquer, a.k.a., “Chente” is a Venezuelan national
and professional money launderer. AMPARAN is associated, along with CONSPIRATORS 5 and
6, with “European Company 1” in Spain, which is a money laundering front operating as a real
estate investment firm. AMPARAN also maintains relationships with “European Financial
Institution 1” in Malta, a private investment firm, which he uses to launder money.

8. Carmelo URDANETA Aqui is a Venezuelan national and former Legal Counsel
to the Venezuelan Ministry of Oil and Mining.

9. Abraham Edgardo ORTEGA is a Venezuelan national and former Executive
Director of Finance at Venezuelan state-owned éil company, Petrdleos de Venezuela, S.A.
(PDVSA). “

10. GUSTAVO Adolfo Hefnandez Frieri is a Colombian national by birth and
naturalized U.S. citizen (as of May 3013). GUSTAVO isa professional money launderer who uses
his financial firms, Global Security Advisors (GSA) and Global Strategic Investments, in Miami,
Florida, to launder mofiey with false-mutual-fund investments.

: 11. Hugo Andre Ramalho GOJS is a Portuguese national and professional money

launderer associated with AMPARAN.

\
\

12. Matthias KRULL is a German national and Panamanian resident. KRULL was a
high-level banker ata large Swiss bank, specializing in Venezuelan clients. KRULL is the personal
banker of CONSPIRATOR 7 and others. KRULL manages “banking” activities for numerous

Venezuelan officials and kleptocrats.
Case i 18-cr20055-KMW BDocurrent 3 Entered on FLSD Docket 07/24/2018 Page 5 of 35

13. Marcelo Federico GUTIERREZ Acosta y Lara is a Uruguayan national.
GUTIERREZ is part of an ownership group of at least one U.S. bank that facilitates money
laundering and is associated with GUSTAVO. |

14, CONSPIRATORS 1 —- 9 are some of the additional uncharged members of the
conspiracy along with others. CONSPIRATORS 1 — 9 include other former PDVSA officials,
individuals associated with CONVIT, reported members of the “boliburgués,” and professional
third-party money launderers. - / | |

15. VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS 1 - 3 are foreign officials. “

PROBABLECAUSE © |

16. In 2016, a Confidential Source (CS) approached the HSI Miami Office (HSI-
Miami) regarding 78 million in Euros the CS received, which originated from a loan contract with
PDVSA. The CS was involved in a money laundeting conspiracy and wanted to surrender the
money and cooperate. HSI-Miami thereafter began an undercover investigation: Organized Crime
and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) Operation Money Flight.

17. TheCs agreed to, wear a recording device and Operation Money Flight proceeded
proactively with an initial focus on the defendants’ efforts to launder a portion of the 78 million in
Euros (the “PDVSA firhds”) in and through South Florida.

18. ‘Two years and over one hundred recordings later, Operation Money Flight revealed
an international conspiracy to launder the PDVSA funds through Miami and several large-scale,
international third-party money-laundering organizations. More specifically, the investigation

revealed the use of Miami real estate and sophisticated false-investment schemes to: launder

hundreds of millions of U.S. Dollars.
Case TTe-cm20085-KMW BDocurrent3 Entered on FLSD Docket 07/24/2018 Page 6 of 35

Venezuelan Corruption & Miami Laundering
19. Venezuela has a foreign-currency exchange system under which the government
‘will exchange local currency (Bolivars) at a fixed rate for U.S. Dollars. The fixed exchange rate
has been well below the true economic rate by a substantial factor for several years. For example,
in 2014, the Venezuelan government fixed exchange rate was approximately six Bolivars to one
U.S. Dollar. By contrast, the true economic exchange rate was approximately sixty Bolivars to one
U.S. Dollar. Y

20. The difference between’ the fixed rate and the true economic rate creates
opportunity for fraud and abuse. c

21. For example, in 2014, an individual could exchange 10 million U.S. Dollars
for 600 million Bolivars at the true economic rate. Then, if that individual had access to the
government fixed rate, he could convert that same’600 million Bolivars into 100 million U.S.
Dollars. Essentially, in two transactions, that‘person could buy 100 million U.S. Dollars for 10
million U.S. Dollars. “

22. Massive fraud and corruption is rampant throughout Venezuela’s government-run
foreign-exchange system. Estimates of the fraud range as high as $20 billion a year, and reports
indicate that corrupt government officials take kickbacks to authorize exchanges at the fixed
rate. Z

23. Embezzlement of Venezuela’s dwindling foreign currency reserves is the fuel for

these corrupt exchange schemes. PDVSA is Venezuela’s primary source of income and foreign

currency (namely, U.S. Dollars and Euros), and serves as the source of foreign currency used to

 

_ | Reuters, Venezuela Says 40 Percent of Dollar Buyers Are Shell Companies, Dec. 12, 2013,
available at http://www.reuters.com/article/us-venezuela-economy-idUSBRE9BBOT82013 1212
Case i T8-cr20055-KMW Document 3 Entered on FLSD Docket 07/24/2018 Page 7 of 33 |

fund corrupt foreign exchange embezzlement schemes. As with Venezuela in general, fraud and
corruption is reportedly common at PDVSA.

24. Venezuela’s state of social, political, and economic crisis in which multi-billion-
Dollar corrupt and criminal ecosystems thrive drives rivers of criminal proceeds through South
Florida, which has become an international money-laundering hub and a desirable destination for
well-to-do foreign criminals and kleptocrats.

False-Investment Money Laundering van

25. Most of the defendants are sophisticated operators with respect to the international
banking system and are aware of banks’ general due diligence and anti-money laundering
practices, including know-your-customer (K YC) requirements: .

26. Importantly, for one party to wire funds to a third party, there must be some
legitimate business justification provided to the bank: for instance, a payment for the purchase of
real estate or equipment. Moreover, a bank will ask for documents supporting the justification,
which—depending on the transaction—Can be difficult to manufacture; for instance, a bank may
be able to verify whether a supposed real estate transaction took place. This verification poses a
problem for money laundering transactions in which large sums of criminal proceeds must be
moved around the finaficial system from one person to another as bribes, kickbacks, transfers, or
exorbitant expenditures, for instance.

27. Accordingly, false investments in fake securities are convenient justifications in
that they are more difficult for a bank to investigate and verify. By way of example, one party
might wire 30 million U.S. Dollars to a third party with the justification that the amount is a loan

to the third party, supported by a 30 million U.S. Dollar promissory note due at some point in the
oO
*

Sh
“i

rae
2

O

wm

Lory

3
ot
2

ra

3

future, which neither party actually intends to honor. For the bank, ascertaining the true intent of
the parties and the fraudulent nature of the investment is difficult.

28. Sophisticated false-investment money laundering schemes are used throughout this
conspiracy, ranging from individual false securities (promissory notes and bonds) to entire false-
investment funds, which can be subscribed to as needed to justify transactions.

29. Surrounding and supporting these false-investment laundering schemes are
complicit money managers, brokerage firms, banks, and real estate investment firms in the United
States and elsewhere, operating as a network of professional money launderers.

Money Laundering Conspiracy .

30. The conspiracy in this case began in December 2014 with a currency exchange
scheme to embezzle approximately 600 million US. Dollars from PDVSA, obtained through
bribery and fraud, and the defendants’ efforts to use the CS to launder a portion of the proceeds of
that scheme (the PDVSA funds). By May of*2015, the conspiracy had doubled in amount to 1.2
billion U.S. Dollars embezzled from PDVSA.

31. The facts of the ‘conspiracy set forth below are evidenced by electronic
communications and docunients, government records, financial records, recordings of phone
conversations and in-pérson meetings, and CS statements.

4 CONVIT & URDANETA Approach the CS

32. In 2014, URDANETA and CONVIT approached the CS with an offer to sell 100

million U.S. Dollars at a favorable Bolivar exchange rate and without the CS having to front the

Bolivars.
Case iTe-cr20085-KMW DBooumentS Entered on FLSD Docket 07/24/2018 Page 9 af 3s

33. | The CS agreed because the CS had clients in Venezuela to whom the CS could sell
the U.S. Dollars. From previous business dealings, the CS knew CONVIT obtained U.S. Dollars
from exchange contracts with PDVSA. |

34. |The CS expected to receive a simple buyer-seller foreign exchange (“forex”)
contract to memorialize the agreement with CONVIT and URDANETA.

35. Over the course of the next month, January 2015, CONVIT, URDANETA, and the
CS continued to discuss and facilitate the supposed forex transaction, often via BlackBerry
Messenger (BBM) chats and while CONVIT was present in the Southern District of Florida,
according to U.S. travel and other records.” <

36. During this time, CONVIT delayed providing the forex contract to the CS, but this' ~
did not overly concern the CS because the funds were coming from a regulated asset management
firm, “European Financial Institution 1,” which the és could explain to the receiving bank.

37. | The CS instructed CONVIT to’wire the funds from European Financial Institution
1 to an account belonging to a trust, of which the CS was the ultimate beneficiary. CONVIT agreed
and informed the CS that the funds ‘would arrive in Euros and not U.S. Dollars.

38. By February, 12, 2015, the CS had received approximately 78.8 million Euros into
the trust from Europeari Financial Institution 1 in four separate wire transfers beginning on January
14, 2015. 4

39. After receiving the initial 36 million Euros in mid-January, the CS asked CONVIT

via BBM chat on January 13, 2015 if the CS could sell about 20 million Euros to a client, but

CONVIT replied “no.” CONVIT explained that he had already paid for the Bolivars on his end

 

* According to these records, CONVIT arrived in the Southern ‘District of Florida on December
20, 2014 and departed on January 18, 2015.
Case [:bS-cr-20685-KMW Document friterecd on FLSD Docket 7/24/2018 Page LO of 33

(meaning he had no immediate need for Bolivars), and that the CS would have to wait about a
month to sell the Euros further.

40. On February 6, 2015, the CS informed CONVIT that the CS urgently needed the
forex contract between the CS and European Financial Institution 1 for the CS’s bank’s compliance
department. The CS asked CONVIT for a form draft so that the CS could prepare it.

41. That same day, CONVIT finally sent the CS a (PDF) document to justify the
transfer between European Financial Institution 1 and the CS’s trust. What CONVIT sent,
however, was a false joint venture contract between a Hong Kong shell company, Eaton Global
Services Limited, and the CS’s trust, with a forged signature on behalf of the CS’s trustee. The CS
had never seen this contract before.

42. The fake joint venture contract, dated December 17, 2014, contemplated a fictitious ;
600 million U.S. Dollar joint venture between Eaton Global and the CS’s trust; the supposed
business of the joint venture was the making of loans to PDVSA:

43, On February 9, 2015, the CS told CONVIT that the fake joint venture contract could
not be used. CONVIT and URDANETA assured the CS that the fake contract had not been used

)
or provided to any bank.

y

44. The CS“also requested the original underlying exchange contracts and CONVIT
responded that URDANETA had physical copies and would deliver them. Days later in Venezuela,
the CS received the documents in-person from URDANETA, who explained that he obtained the
documents from “CONSPIRATOR 1,” a former PDVSA official.

45. These documents, which the CS provided to HSI-Miami, reveal the source of the

PDVSA funds and the nature of the scheme.
Case [:ES-cr-20685-KMW Document friterecd on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page Li of 33

PDVSA Bribery & Embezzlement Scheme Revealed
46. Thesource of the PDVSA funds was a PDVSA foreign-currency exchange scheme
benefitting Eaton Global. The exchange scheme was disguised as a “financing” arrangement using
the following three documents (provided by URDANETA) in an artless attempt to hide what was
ultimately revealed as an embezzlement:
a. First, a loan contract, dated December 17, 2014, between PDVSA
. and Rantor Capital C.A., a Venezuelan shell company, in which Rantor’agreed to
loan 7.2 billion Bolivars to PDVSA. The loan contract was executed by
“VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 1” as Vice President of PDVSA;
b. Second, an assignment contract, dated December 23, 2014, between
Rantor and Eaton Global, in which Rantor assigns its rights as PDVSA’s creditor
under the loan contract to Eaton Global and in which it is contemplated that PDVSA
is given the right to cancel the debt within 180 days by paying 600 million U.S.
Dollars; and <
C. Third, a notice of assignment letter, dated December 23, 2014, in
which Eaton Global informs PDVSA (VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 1) of the
assignment and‘ suggests that PDVSA repay the 7.2 billion Bolivar loan in the Euro
equivalent of 600 million U.S. Dollars. The letter included instructions for PDVSA
to wire the funds to European Financial Institution 1 accounts for the benefit of
Eaton Global. |
47. In short, Eaton Global ended up with the right to pay PDVSA about 7.2 billion
Bolivars (worth around 35 million Euros) and receive about 510 million Euros, of which about

78.8 million Euros was sent to the CS.
Case iis-cr-20685-KMW Document Entered on FLSO Docket 07/24/2018 Page 12 of 33

48. While the CS continued to wait for a forex contract from CONVIT and
URDANETA, the CS began to conduct third-party transactions on their and CONSPIRATOR 1’s
behalf. Ultimately, the CS learned that the CS was not involved in a forex transaction, but rather a
money laundering operation in which the CS was expected to launder the proceeds of the
embezzlement and make cash kickback payments to VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 1.

49. In April 2015, the CS began making cash payments in Venezuela at URDANETA
and CONSPIRATOR 1’s direction, including to URDANETA, CONSPIRATOR 1, and
VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 1, which would ultimately total over 1 million U.S. Dollars.

50. In all, the CS conducted approximately 15 million Euros-worth of transactions
through the summer of 2015, including several U.S.-Dollar wire transactions at the defendants’
direction,’ until the CS began to resist making further payments. Around that time, the CS used
the liquidation of the CS’s trustee as an excuse to halt payments: the CS claimed that the CS could
not continue without the forex contract. CONVIT and URDANETA continued to pressure the CS.
The ensuing impasse led to a meeting around November 2015 at CONVIT’s office in Venezuela,

51. Around November 5015 , CONVIT summoned the CS to a meeting at CONVIT’s
office in Caracas, Venezuela. Prior to the meeting, CONVIT explained to the CS that the CS would
meet AMPARAN, who was in charge of the financial documents.

52. At the meeting, CONVIT, URDANETA, AMPARAN, and the CS sat around a
table. CONVIT had a handgun on the table. Next to CONVIT was a German Shepard with a shock

collar. CONVIT held the remote for the collar, and commented that he could not always control

 

. 3 Based upon my training and experience, I know that international U.S.-Dollar wire transactions
are routed and processed through banks located in the United States.

10
Case :bS-cr-20685-KMW Document friterecd on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 13 of 33

the dog. The meeting took place at CONVIT’s office with numerous security guards; according to
the CS, the mood was one of intimidation by CONVIT.

53. | AMPARAN told the CS that the fake joint venture contract -had in fact been
provided to European Financial Institution 1’s banks in Canada and Malta. Accordingly,
AMPARAN explained that it would be impossible to replace the contract with a simple forex
contract and additional fake contracts were needed. The CS asked to return the PDVSA funds and
reverse the transactions, but was told a reversal was impossible. L

The CS Records the Defendants

54. Beginning in February 2016, the CS recorded conveisations with the defendants
and other conspirators in which they explicitly acknowledged’ the money laundering conspiracy
and underlying embezzlement. As evidence by the following recordings, during this time, the cs
worked with URDANETA, ORTEGA, and CONSPIRATOR 1 to account for and distribute the
PDVSA funds to themselves and others and“to ensure that AMPARAN supplied the additional
fake contracts necessary to do so. |
55. In a-February 19, 2016 recorded meet with URDANETA, the CS complained that
the CS needed additional documents from AMPARAN. URDANETA agreed and said that he
would write to AMPARAN, CONVIT and “CONSPIRATOR 2” to “bug them” about the
contracts. URDANETA also stated that they (CONVIT, et al.) are being “hit right now” by people
in the “assembly” and joked that it is not a “pifiata,” in an apparent reference to corrupt Venezuelan
officials hitting the defendants up for bribes. URDANETA also stated that he would not go to the

United States because the last time he was searched at the border and “they took away [his] phone.

[And t]hank God [he] didn’t have [his] phone, but a new phone.”

11
Case iiS-cr-20685-KMW Document 3S Entereci on FLSO Docket O7/24/2018 Page 14 of 83

56. In a February 22, 2016 recorded meet with ORTEGA, ORTEGA and the CS
discussed how to move ORTEGA’s money from the CS to ORTEGA. The CS explained that it is
not simple, and ORTEGA, regarding the source of his portion of the PDVSA funds, stated:

So we can be frank and open with each other. Now. You know the origin of that.

And that comes from... from something that is still making noise and it’s still

making noise and it’s still making noise. It’s going to explode one day. [ mean,

maybe not tomorrow, and also, it’s not the... our friend, the leader in all this, he is
everywhere every day

ORTEGA also acknowledged CONSPIRATOR 1’s" role in assigning him a portion of the PDVSA
funds and fretted aloud:

It’s all that shit they’ve been talking about, investigatioris and shit. Or the
Americans going into all this, is that tue? How far does that reach?

But, how far could they get, in your opinion? If they get to the Swiss and they tell
them, “I want, I want this information.” Do they have to give it to them?

Finally, the CS and ORTEGA walked through somé account opening forms and discussed how
ORTEGA could avoid declaring himself as a politically exposed person (also known as a PEP) on
bank KYC documents. a

57. In a February 23; 2016 recorded conversation with “CONSPIRATOR 3”
(CONSPIRATOR 1’s brother the CS explained that the CS’s trustee is liquidating and
“eventually there’s a risk of the trustee checking the operation” and finding that the “the guys did
a fake deal, falsifying the signatures of these guys who are there.” The CS explained that the CS —
called URDANETA and CONSPIRATOR | and told them that they have to set the documentation
straight. The CS and CONSPIRATOR 3 also discussed a meeting in Caracas between the CS,
URDANETA, and AMPARAN about fixing the document, and CONSPIRATOR 3 noted that he

has a “payment for [VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 1].”

 

4 CONSPIRATOR 1 is a former PDVSA official.

12
Case BAB Cr 20685-R VW . Document S Entered on FLOD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 15 of 33

58. In a March 7, 2016 recorded meet with URDANETA, the CS and URDANETA
recounted the receipt and expenditure of the PDVSA funds to date (“seventy eight million eight
hundred and something”). They recounted how much belonged to CONSPIRATOR 1 (“fourteen
million five hundred forty thousand six hundred twenty-five”) and other expenditures, including a
list of cash payments to include payments to VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 1 who authorized the
underlying PDVSA loan agreement. The CS recounted the cash kickbacks to VENEZUELAN
OFFICIAL 1 as follows: | 7 |

[VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 1], I gave him... to the boy he sent-in one occasion

two hundred thousand [200,000], June fourth [4'*] and in another occasion one
hundred thousand [100,000], on June twenty sixth [26"). .

URDANETA agreed. URDANETA and the CS then discussed AMPARAN’s plan to make new

| fake contracts justifying the transaction (the CS noted to URDANETA that AMPARAN is flying
to Miami in several days). URDANETA was conéémed that he didn’t want to leave a trail of
“breadcrumbs” with respect to the accounts. URDANETA again acknowledged CONVIT’s
involvement and CONSPIRATOR 1’s arrangement with ORTEGA. CONSPIRATOR 1 joined the
meeting and discussed with URDANETA and the CS the fake joint venture contract, who was
responsible for it, and how “to divide up the PDVSA funds.

59. Importantly, at this meeting, URDANETA and CONSPIRATOR 1 reviewed a
spreadsheet of all the cash payments and expenditures created by the CS; each acknowledged the
contents of the document, wrote notes on it, checked off transactions, and, ultimately, dated it. The
CS provided a copy of this document to HSI-Miami with both URDANETA and CONSPIRATOR
1’s handwritten notes ; included on the spreadsheet are the kickback payments to VENEZUELAN
OFFICIAL 1. |

60. In a March 9, 20 16 recorded meet with AMPARAN and URDANETA,

AMPARAN ran through the plan to replace the fake joint venture agreement with new documents.

s

13
Case U18-cr-20685-KMW BocumentS Erierecd on FLSO Docket O7/24/2018 Page 16 of 33

AMPARAN explained that the fake agreement could be replaced with the new (better) fake ones
in the compliance file at the Canadian bank and added to the file at European Financial Institution
1, and further that the “Accounting Firm 1” auditors are on board. AMPARAN explained that he
is flying to Miami the next day and from there he will print out and provide the CS with the new
fake contracts.

61. In a March 15, 2016 recorded meet with ORTEGA, ORTEGA explained to the CS
that he has found a “person” (GUSTAVO) with a “structure” to transfer his PDVSA funds to
ORTEGA, and asks the CS to meet with the person in New York, Miami; or Panama. ORTEGA
asked the CS what the CS’s story is and why the CS is acting differently “overnight” and whether
it is “an investigation”; the CS explained that everyone is “making messes,” that the CS has
“start[ed] to find out about stuff... the [CS] didn’ t know,” and that the CSi 1S stopping because the
CS doesn’t want to get into trouble. ORTEGA explaiced that the rumor is that the “Americans are
investigating you, that you are in big trouble” and asked the CS whether the CS is under
investigation and what the banks have asked the CS.

62. In an April 2, 2016 recorded meet with ORTEGA and GUSTAVO in Panama,
ORTEGA introduced the CS to GUSTAVO, who explained how he can launder money using his
brokerage firm and private mutual fund. Specifically, GUSTAVO explained that his brokerage
firm, GSA, operates from the United States, but primarily does business in Latin America and
manages $2 billion.* Regarding GSA’s reputation, GUSTAVO explained:

I would say that our profile, would be by-by nature a business that we prioritized

the type of client with which we deal, uh...let’s say if it is a low profile, we go even
, D

 

> I am further aware, that GSA is affiliated with Global Strategic Investments, LLC (GSI), which
is a broker/dealer headquartered in Miami, Florida. GUSTAVO and the CS would later conduct
numerous meetings at GSI’s office in Miami.

14
 

lower, that way they will never talk about us, or any advertising, or any cocktail
parties.

GUSTAVO explained that they operate a fake mutual fund which receives money from a payment
made to look like an investment into the fund, but is actually laundered out of the fund. GUSTAVO
explained that “we’ll make the transactions in such a way that the purchase will look legitimate”
and that the money can be directed anywhere on the back-end using “cards” or “checks” or even
“wire transfers,” but as to the latter he (GUSTAVO) will “always be on the lookout to see the
transfer and who’s receiving it, because...[l]ike the saying goes, the fish dies by its mouth. ...they
have their eyes on everyone.” GUSTAVO went on to explain how he ean avoid being tracked by
the authorities such as Interpol and acknowledged that ORTEGA and the CS’s situation is a “time
bomb.” Finally, GUSTAVO insisted that they use WhatsApp to communicate and avoid emails.®
Cooperation Begins & Conspiracy Continues in Miami

63. In April 2016, the CS began cooperating with HSI-Miami and continued making
consensual recordings with the defendants and other conspirators.

64. The conspiracy continued in four primary aspects. First, AMPARAN worked to
replace the fake joint venture contact with better fake contracts to justify the initial transfers to the
CS. Second, AMPARAN worked to launder URDANETA’s portion of the PDVSA funds. from
the CS using false investments. Third, GUSTAVO worked to launder ORTEGA’s portion of the
PDVSA funds fom the CS, also using false investments. And fourth, KRULL and GUSTAVO

worked to launder additional PDVSA funds that did not originally flow through the CS.

 

6 Based on my training and experience, encrypted peer-to-peer chat services, such as WhatsApp,
are preferred by individuals engaged in criminal activity because law enforcement is generally
unable to obtain the content of the communications from the service provider.

15
Case 1: bS-cr-20685-K MW Document 3S friterecd on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 18 of 33

65. During the course of this conspiracy, GUSTAVO also laundered funds as part of a
scheme to promote international narcotics trafficking. KRULL also contacted the CS with several
separate plans to launder money from at least one foreign bribery scheme, all as set forth below.

AMPARAN’s Replacement of the Fake Joint Venture Contract

66. Ina recorded April 27, 2016 meet with AMPARAN at the Miami, Florida office of
Solar Cargo, Inc.,7 AMPARAN and the CS discussed the fake joint venture contract and
AMPARAN acknowledged that it was meant to justify the movement of the PDVSA funds to the
cs and that CONVIT was involved. AMPARAN assured the CS not to“worry about European
Financial Institution 1 and the fake contract because European Finanéial Institution 1 will let him
know if there is an investigation and AMPARAN “can manipulate that.” AMPARAN and the CS
discussed supplemental fake contracts AMPARAN had previously prepared and provided.
AMPARAN also began to explain how he will lander URDANETA’s portion of the PDVSA
funds using fake bonds. “

67. On or around May 26,: 5016, the CS received a BBM chat from AMPARAN
instructing him where in Venezuela to pick up the proposed fake contracts. The CS had an assistant
pick up the replacement fake contracts from AMPARAN and provided them to HSI-Miami.

68. On May 25, 2016, URDANETA sent a BBM chat to the CS stating that
“T*‘CONSPIRATOR 4%] ... has an offer and I prefer you to speak directly with him.” On May 27,

2016, the CS had a recorded call with CONSPIRATOR 4, and explained to CONSPIRATOR 4

that the CS was working with AMPARAN to fix things and that the CS had explained to the bank '

 

7 AMPARAN explained in the recorded meet that he works for Solar Cargo, that it has six planes
operating, and that he had recently been hired by PDVSA to move medicine from Iran to
Venezuela.

8 CONSPIRATOR 4 is associated with CONVIT and formerly with PDVSA .

16
Case [:bS-cr-20685-K MW Document frierecd on FLSD Docket 7/24/2018 Page 19 of 33

that the PDVSA funds were from an exchange transaction. CONSPIRATOR 4 responded “Oh they
made it up” and the following conversation ensued: |

CONSPIRATOR 4: This is bad. This is bad when not-not-not... The truth is not
L spoken and can’t-can’t-can’t even do [unintelligible]
regarding it since it never happened.

CS: Uh-huh. But...the truth was a foreign exchange transaction,
correct?

CONSPIRATOR 4: The truth it was, was, was not a foreign exchange.
transaction. It does not exist in Bolivars. Not atall, it was
a payment [unintelligible]

CONSPIRATOR 4 suggested a meeting in Venezuela with everyone who has “an interest” to sort
things out and fix “the papers” before things get bad when it is too-late.

69. On June 13, 2016, the CS met with AMPARAN in Venezuela and they executed
replacement fake contracts. The replacement fake contracts (later provided to HSI-Miami by the
CS) included a complex array of bogus financing and trust documents involving Rantor, the CS’s"
trust, and other entities.

70. On June 22, 2016, AMPARAN sent the CS an email with a fake loan agreement
between Solar Cargo and Rantot meant to supplement the replacement fake contracts. In BBM
chats between AMPARAN and the CS in August 2016, AMPARAN asked if the CS received the
latest contract, and the CS responded yes. On September 5, 2016, AMPARAN sent the final fake
contract between Solar Cargo and a company belonging to the CS. All of these replacement fake
contracts were backdated to early 2014.

AMPARAN and URDANETA’s Efforts to Continue Laundering PDVSA Funds

71. As mentioned above, in an April 27, 2016 recorded meet with AMPARAN in

Miami, the efforts to launder URDANETA’s portion of the PDVSA funds from the CS occurred

_ simultaneously to AMPARAN’s efforts to replace or supplement the fake joint venture contract.

17
Case [:bS-cr-20685-KMW Document frierecd on FLSD Docket 7/24/2018 Page 20 of 33

During that meet, AMPARAN explained how he would launder URDANETA’s portion of the
PDVSA funds using the purchase of a fraudulent bond designed to default to conceal the transfer:

we are now working through a mechanism, through which, we issue a bond through
a bank, from which we have, eh, on which we have a lot of influence, or several
banks, but one in particular that is the one, we are working with right now, we issue
a bond. ... That you on that side would buy, you would make an investment in that
bond, we receive, um, that, eh, receive that money for the purchase of that bond
and you keep the bond on that side. In the term of, a number of months, that bond
starts going down in price, ... until there comes a moment when it flips, ... but the
account is never closed, nor, nor are funds transferred, the funds never leave, and
an investment is made. “4

72. In a May 12, 2016 recorded call with URDANETA, URDANETA and the CS
recounted the CS’s meeting with AMPARAN and the- defaulting-bond laundering plan.
URDANETA brought up an apartment “over there” in Miami for which he paid a significant

deposit that he is being pressured to close on in 60 days by the developer and agreed to send the

a
Lf

CS the notice from the developer.

2, URDANETA later sent the @S an image of a May 10, 2016 email from the
developer of the Porsche Design Tower in Miami, informing him of the upcoming closing on the
unit. The email included “Pre Closing Questionnaire” provided by the developer contains the
following warning: “Note: taking title under a company or trust may trigger FinCEN reporting
requirements.” In a follow up chat with the CS, URDANETA explained that he was worried about
the FinCEN reporting requirement and discussed ways to minimize the risk; URDANETA
suggested forming a new company with his wife as the beneficial owner.

74. In a May 17, 2016 recorded call with URDANETA, URDANETA discussed the

transfer of the Miami condominium with the equity of URDANETA’s down payment to

AMPARAN as a fee for AMPARAN’s laundering services. And, ina May 18, 2016 recorded meet

18
Case [:ES-cr-20685-KMW Document friterecd on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 21 of 33

with AMPARAN at Solar Cargo in Miami, AMPARAN and the CS discussed using the Miami
condominium as a fee’ and moving forward with the defaulting-bond laundering plan. :

75. In a November 21, 2016 BBM chat, AMPARAN provided the details of an
additional fraudulent bond purchase to launder URDANETA’s PDVSA funds and explained that
the bond purchase will be facilitated through a U.K. broker dealer, “European Financial Institution
2.”

76. In a March 1, 2017 recorded meet, the CS met with URDANETA, AMPARAN,
“CONSPIRATOR 5,”!” and GOIS, at the offices of European Company 1-in Madrid, Spain. Prior
to the meeting, URDANETA was captured on the recording explaining ‘to the CS that the CS:
should not be concerned about the fake joint venture contract-or being caught because they only
had to worry about the United States and the “Americans ... have no jurisdiction”; URDANETA
uses the word ”launder” to describe their activities. “

77. The purpose of the meeting was for the CS to gain comfort with the “operation”
proposed by AMPARAN. CONSPIRATOR 5 and GOIS were introduced as the managers of the
operation and meant to comfort the CS, who had relayed misgivings to URDANETA about
working with AMPARAN,, .

78. During'the meeting, GOIS asked if there is anything he can tell the CS to make him

more comfortable and the CS noted that he was concerned about European Financial Institution 2

—

 

°AMPARAN and URDANETA would later report that they worked out a solution to achieve the
transfer. Miami-Dade Property records show that the property was transferred from the developer
to Paladium Real Estate Group LLC on January 12, 2017. According to the Florida Department of
State, Paladium was formed on May 26, 2016 with URDANETA’s wife as an owner. On
September 23, 2016, AMPARAN’s wife was added as a manager of Paladium, and on September
15, 2017, after the closing, URDANETA’s wife was removed, leaving AMPARAN in control of ©
Paladium and the condominium.

10 CONSPIRATOR 5 is a third-party money launderer.
Case (:ES-cr-20685-KMW Document frierec on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 22 of 33

because they asked “no question” and had “no objection” when an account was opened in the CS’s
name to purchase the fake bond. GOIS explained that there is no issue with European Financial
Institution 2, AMPARAN, GOIS, and CONSPIRATOR 5 went on to explain that they manage a
fund which allows them'fo“* generate payment structures, and third party payments institution, with
a very light KYC.”” AMPARAN emphasized that they can make payments to “Miami, Panama,
Europe”: the CS clarified, “And you have no issues paying in the United States?”, to which
AMPARAN replied, “No.” GOIS explained that the CS should first buy a U.K. GILT, then
transfer it to an account in the CS’s name at European Financial Institution 2, after which it will
be swapped with the fake bond to begin the transfer to URDANETA.” |
~79. On April 26, 2017, the CS, at the request of GOIS and URDANETA, purchased a
5-million-pound U.K. GILT. On June 20, 2017, the CS, at the request of GOIS, ordered his bank,
to “free deliver” the GILT to an account opened for fhe CS at European Financial Institution 2. At
European Financial Institution 2, GOIS would oversee an operation to have the GILT exchanged
for a separate worthless bond, so the funds could ultimately be transferred to and concealed for
URDANETA. Thereafter, the patties continued to discuss the movement of the balance of
~ URDANETA’s portion of the PDVSA funds through 2018, though-no additional funds have been
moved to date. ra
80. In’ a recorded December 11, 2017 meet with GOIS in the U.K., GOIS explained
how European Company 1 is the front supporting the laundering operation with the fake bond, and
that AMPARAN, CONSPIRATOR 5, and “CONSPIRATOR 6”!! are the directors. GOIS also’ ~

lamented their criminal exposure, and advised the CS as follows:

...the faster you get out, the better for you. Because if you... they’re going to lock
us all up. That... I’m telling you, [CS], what do you want me to tell you? That it’s

 

'l CONSPIRATOR 6 is a third-party money launderer.

20
 

not like that? It’s the truth, there’s going to be a day that they are going to lock all
of us up; they are going to lock us up. This will be known. [CS], I have no doubt.
I already saw where the shit comes from. I saw where it comes from, how they’re
doing things, then in the end, whoever has the money is the one who is going to
have problems. The rest, well, he will have to defend himself, saying “Look, I got
paid here.” You’ll defend yourself in your own way, I’ll defend myself in the same
way. But that will happen

ORTEGA and GUSTAVO’s Efforts to Continue Laundering PDVSA Funds

81. Also beginning in April 2016, ORTEGA and GUSTAVO continued their efforts to
launder ORTEGA’s portion of the PDVSA funds through GUSTAVO’s fake mutual fund, which
culminated in the actual movement of funds about a year later. e |

82. In February 2017, the CS laundered some of ORTEGA’s portion of the PDVSA

‘funds with GUSTAVO’s fake mutual fund structure at ORTEGA’s direction. On February, 21,

2017, GUSTAVO emailed the CS subscription instructions and a subscription agreement for the
fake fund. Per these documents, the name of the find was Global Securities Trade Finance, aw
Cayman Islands entity, and the custodian bank was “US Financial Institution 1” in New Jersey.
On February 24, 2017, the CS instructed 4 bank in the Bahamas (where a portion the PDVSA funds
were then held) to subscribe to the fund per the instructions in the amount of 5,000,0000 US.
Dollars. Thereafter, on or around February 28, 2017, that amount was wired to U.S. Financial
Institution 1; the fake subscription was obtained by the CS, and the 5,000,000 U.S. Dollars was
available for further use by ORTEGA.

83, In a March 29, 2017 recorded meet in Miami, Florida, the CS asked GUSTAVO
about U.S. Financial Institution 1 and GUSTAVO explained that the bank is controlled by his
partners in Uruguay, who also control another bank in Puerto Rico (“U.S. Financial Institution 2”)

and that they “have our people in the back” of the bank.

21
Case :bS-cr-20685-KMW Document friterecd on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 24 of 33

84. Innumerous BBM chats between the CS and ORTEGA, ORTEGA asks how things
are going with “G” (GUSTAVO) and acknowledges the ongoing laundering of his (ORTEGA’s)
funds.

85. Later in April 2017, GUSTAVO, with ORTEGA’s agreement, laundered $400,000

. of the $5,000,000 back to the CS as the CS’s “fee” for the CS’s role in facilitating the laundering
of ORTEGA’s$5,000,000 to GUSTAVO. The CS provided GUSTAVO with an undercover (UC)
bank account in the name of a shell company in the Southern District of Floridato receive the fee.
On April 24, 2017, GUSTAVO wired $396,000 from U.S. Financial Institution 1 to the UC .
account. To “justify,” i.e., conceal, the transaction, GUSTAVO created a fake loan contract
between the UC shell company and Global Securities Trade Finance.

86.  Thenext stage of this scheme was the laundering of the fake subscription out of the |
CS’s account and into an account ultimately benefiting ORTEGA in order to eliminate any final
trace of the movement. GUSTAVO and ORTEGA proposed several methods for this, which the
CS rejected. These efforts continue to this day. Over the course of the summer of 2017, however, .
GUSTAVO revealed his connections to yet another complicit US. financial institution, U.S.
Financial Institution 2, in an effort to launder the subscription.

87. In a rec6rded June 7, 2017 meet with GUSTAVO, GUSTAVO told the CS that he
works with U.S.Financial Institution 2, that he knows the owner, and that he can facilitate things:
“Sure, and discreet. And the good thing about [U.S. Financial Institution 2] is that without being,
without being in U.S., it is in U.S....in Puerto Rico.” GUSTAVO later introduced the CS to
GUTIERREZ, the majority shareholder of U.S. Financial Institution 2, and the CS and

GUTIERREZ agreed to meet in the future.

22
 

88. On July 31, 2017, GUTIERREZ flew to Miami from Uruguay to meet with the CS. }
During a récorded meet on July 31, 2017 with GUTIERREZ in Miami, the CS explained td
GUTIERREZ that the CS needed to transfer GUSTAVO’s fund subscription to GUSTAVO’s
“client” (ORTEGA) with no trail. The CS and GUTIERREZ discussed options including internal
account-to-account transfers at U.S. Financial Institution 2.

89. In a recorded August 14, 2017 call with GUTIERREZ, GUTIERREZ and the CS
further discussed the subscription to GUSTAVO’s fund. GUTIERREZ offered possible schemes
to justify the transaction using U.S. Financial Institution 2 and agreéd that U.S. Financial
Institution 2 will charge a two-and-a-half percent (2.5%) fee. c

90. During a recorded August 15, 2017 meet with GUSTAVO in Miami, Florida, the
CS complained to GUSTAVO about how explicit GUTIERREZ was regarding their criminal

| | c
activities because he seemed reckless, and the following conversation ensued as GUSTAVO
attempted to reassure the CS that GUTIERREZ did not know about the ORTEGA “kick-backs”:
cs I méan, I didn’t tell him, “Look, this Ortega
thing is a kick-back,” but I imagine that he
a ~ knows what it is, mean...
GUSTAVO No, no, I haven’t told him anything at all, I
: mean, zero [0], zero [0], zero [0]. And I
a will never tell him anything because it’s not
necessary. I never say anything to these
4 people because you don’t need to. There
_isn’t, I mean... everything is done well.

91. ORTEGA ultimately rejected the U.S. Financial Institution 2 option because he

wanted to avoid the United States. The transfer of the subscription remains unresolved.
GUSTAVO’s Other Laundering Schemes
92. During the course of multiple meetings in Miami with the CS, GUSTAVO

attempted to develop a relationship with the CS as a potential feeder of additional criminal clients

23
Case DLd-cr-20685-KMW Document Erterec on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 26 of 33

in need of money laundering. Indeed, GUSTAVO would go on to encourage and develop
additional money laundering schemes with the CS, touting his connections at multiple U.S.
financial institutions along the way, including other broker/dealers, in addition to U.S. Financial
Institutions 1 & 2.

93. In a November 8, 2016 recorded meet in Miami, the CS conducted a sting against
GUSTAVO, informing GUSTAVO about a “client” who had to buy a plane in Brazil that is “doing
a delicate job” and is “going to move ... sensitive merchandise.” Prior to the cs proposing this
transaction, GUSTAVO assured the CS that the CS could speak frankly’as they were “beyond
good and evil.” The CS explained that the client needed to pay someone in Spain for the plane,
but that the payment could not be traced back to the plane because “there could be a risk ... the
authorities eventually investigate the plane.” GUSTAVO responded “ok” and “uh huh” without
hesitation. The CS further explained that source money is in the United States and is completely
clean. GUSTAVO suggested some options and quickly agreed: “We’ll open an account right away
... and we’ll make the payment” and tat they will justify receiving the payment by selling the
“client” a “product,” ie., a false investment. The CS and GUSTAVO agree to only charge the
“client” ten percent (30,000 U.S. Dollars) in the hopes that he will do more business with them.

94. Thereafter, GUSTAVO and the CS discussed the logistics of the transfer on several

’ occasions. In Jariuary 9, 2017 recorded meet, the CS explained to GUSTAVO that the CS was
worried about ORTEGA and the money they (Venezuelan kleptocrats) are moving more than the
CS was “wortied about the plane, the DEA.” GUSTAVO responded, “Yes, yes.”

95. On January 10, 2017, the CS and GUSTAVO commenced the transaction. Upon

the CS receiving instructions from GUSTAVO, HSI-Miami wired 300,000 U.S. Dollars from a

UC account in the Southern District of Florida to a U.S. Wells Fargo account held by Global

24
Case 1: bS-cr-20685-KMW Document friterecd on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 2? of 33

Securities Management LLC, and, on or around January 13, 2017, the funds were received in a
UC account in Spain as instructed. As previously agreed, GUSTAVO emailed the CS a fake
300,000 U.S. Dollar loan contract to support the initial transaction as well as an invoice from
Global Securities Management in the amount of 30,000 U.S. Dollars for “Loan Structuring.”
KRULL’s Conspires to Launder Additional PDVSA Funds with GUSTAVO

96. In October 2016, the CS met with KRULL in Panama. KRULL explained that he
was looking for a bank to deposit approximately 600,000,000 U.S. Dollars: from a currency
exchange with PDVSA on behalf of a client, “CONSPIRATOR 7,”!? and which the CS learned
were located in Gazprombank. The CS stated the CS could explore‘some options but needed a
contract proving the source of funds. On November 8, 2016, KRULL explained that he had the
contract. In a November 17, 2016 WhatsApp chat, KRULL asked if the CS had “the hush”
(meaning hushmail, an encrypted email provider), and the CS provided a hushmail address. That
same day a PDVSA loan contract arrived at tle CS’s hushmail account.

97. | The PDVSA contract that the CS received from KRULL was an amendment to the
original contract between PDYSA ‘and Rantor, and doubled the credit line from 7.2 to 14 billion
Bolivars. The amendment ,was dated May 25, 2015, and specifically incorporated the initial
PDVSA loan contract.”

98. Over the course of the next few weeks, KRULL continued to press the issue over
WhatsApp chats, explaining his client was in a “hurry.” On November 30, 2016, the CS and
KRULL met again in Panama. Per the CS, KRULL explained that the funds came from exchange

contracts which generated around 1.2 billion U.S. Dollars. KRULL explained that, in addition to

 

2 CONSPIRATOR 7 is another reported billionaire member of the “boliburgués” and owner of a
television network in Venezuela.

25
 

the 600-million-Dollar solution for CONSPIRATOR 7, KRULL needed an additional solution for
200 million U.S. Dollars held in European Financial Institution 1 in the name of a straw owner,
“CONSPIRATOR 8.” (The CS recognized CONSPIRATOR 8 as a straw owner previously
proposed to be used to conceal money for the stepsons of VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 2, a.k.a,
“los chamos,” during a prior meeting with the CONSPIRATOR 8, CONVIT, and “los chamos.’”’)

99. On November 30, 2016, KRULL sent the CS a WhatsApp message with photos of
CONSPIRATORS 7 and 8’s Venezuelan passports. KRULL also forwarded an email to the CS
explaining the European Financial Institution 1 structure; the email was in fact a string of
previously forwarded emails attaching documents from Buropean Financial Institution 1, which
had been sent from AMPARAN to “CONSPIRATOR 9,” to CONSPIRATOR 7, to KRULL, and
to the CS. . |

100. In early December 2016, the CS infotmed KRULL of a solution for laundering the
additional PDVSA funds. The CS ultimately pfoposed GUSTAVO and his mutual-fund laundering
solution. On December 21, 2016, KRULL sent the CS a resume for CONSPIRATOR 8, whom
KRULL referred to as his “buddy.* In a later recorded January 7, 2017 phone call with KRULL,
the CS explained that he could not use the CONSPIRATOR 8 resume, noting “‘this shit is a joke.”
KRULL agreed, “Yesyit’s a joke.... I agree, I agree.” |

101. In a recorded January 9, 2017 meet with GUSTAVO in Miami, the cs asked
GUSTAVO for a solution similar to ORTEGA’s for CONSPIRATORS 7 & 8, and GUSTAVO -
immediately agreed. GUSTAVO noted that CONSPIRATOR 7 has one of the wealthiest fortunes
from the ““chavismo.”” GUSTAVO walked through all the different laundering options for both and
how to handle any “K YC” issues. KRULL later agreed to the solution presented by GUSTAVO,

and in BBM chats would acknowledge “Gustavo” when inquiring of the status. The CS and

26
 

KRULL and the CS and GUSTAVO had numerous recorded conversations and message chats
about the scheme over the course of months.

102. In a January 10, 2017 recorded. conversation, KRULL noted that
“TCONSPIRATOR 7]” is asking if the money can be sent. In another, on January 23, 2017,
KRULL said the money at European Financial Institution 1 is ready to be moved to
CONSPIRATOR 8 and that“‘I met the dude, and also met the guy that represents him.” The CS
asked, “Are these the guy’s sons?” (meaning the stepsons of VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 2), and
KRULL responded, “Nah. Don’t, don’t, don’t ask.”

103. Ina January 31, 2017 recorded call, the CS informed KRULL that he is in Miami
and both discuss the laundering further. KRULL acknowledged receiving money from the.
European Financial Institution 1 accounts before (i.e., other laundering activity) when he described
how the wires work. <

104. On March 7, 2017, KRULL sént the CS a WhatsApp chat and explained that the
clients are asking about GUSTAVO’s fuitd being in the United States. In a March 7, 2017 recorded
call, KRULL advised that “[CONSPIRATOR 7|” is worried, and the CS explained that the fund
is not in the United States, but that GUSTAVO has offices in the United States (Miami and New
York). The CS explainéd that GUSTAVO lives in Miami. KRULL asked if GUSTAVO can fly to
Panama, and the-CS assured KRULL he could.

105. ‘On March 16, 2017, the CS met with KRULL and CONSPIRATOR 8 in Panama,
and at one point called GUSTAVO (who was not in Panama) to discuss the laundering operation.
During the meeting, CONSPIRATOR 8 stated that he “represented three persons.” After the
meeting, KRULL confided to the CS that he had once seen CONSPIRATOR 8 at CONSPIRATOR

7’s office having lunch with “los chamos,” i.e., the stepsons of VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 2.

27
Case ]:bS-cr-20685-KMW Document friterecd on FLSD Docket O7/24/2018 Page 30 cf 33

-

106. Inarecorded April 5, 2017 call with KRULL, KRULL stated that CONSPIRATOR
8 was worried about wiring funds to purchase GUSTAVO’s fraudulent fund to U.S. Financial
Institution 1 in New Jersey because he was worried about using U.S. banks. KRULL explained
that he told CONSPIRATOR 8 it was irrelevant because all U.S. Dollar wire transactions travel
through correspondent banks in the United States regardless.

107. Ina recorded April 14, 2017 meet in Miami with KRULL, KRULL and the CS
discussed GUSTAVO and CONSPIRATOR 7 and the plan to launder the other PDVSA funds.

108. GUSTAVO and KRULL would continue to discuss this scheme with the CS for
months thereafter. For instance, in a recorded call with KRULL on August 2, 2017, the CS told
KRULL, “I am going to be with GUSTAVO tomorrow ... and he’s going to ask me about the fund
with the children.” KRULL explained that he is not sure, but that “CONSPIRATOR 7” may be
doing something on it with “Chente” (AMPARAN) had explained that he (KRULL) speaks mostly
to “[CONSPIRATOR 8]” about it because he’is “the client.”

109. Records obtained from erfail search warrants confirm the flow of the PDVSA funds
from PDVSA to the defendants and other conspirators through European Financial Institution 1.
For instance, a September 201 5 email circulated among AMPARAN and CONSPIRATORS 5 and:
6 with the subject line“‘Numeros [CONSPIRATOR 7] includes an attachment titled “Operation
600k,” which contains the following work sheets:

a. A work sheet titled “Detailed Income from PDVSA” shows ten
transfers from PDVSA from December 29, 2014 through February 3, 2015 totaling
511,913,270.74 Euros. .

b. A work sheet titled “Summary of the 600 Operation” shows that, of

the 511 million Euros: 20,476,530.83 was assigned to European Financial

28
Case 1i8-cr-20885-KMW Document S Entered on FLSO Docket 07/24/2018 Page 31 of 33

Institution 1 as a 4% fee; 227,265,537.52 Euros went to the “BOLI” (CONVIT and’
CONSPIRATOR 2); 159,085,876.26 Euros went to “CHAMOS” (the stepsons of
VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 2); and 68,179,661.26 Euros went to CONSPIRATOR
7. The remaining 36,905 ,664.87 Euros was accounted for as the “Cost” of the initial
7.2 billion Bolivars used to obtain the 511 million Euros.
c. Further worksheets account for how each recipient moved the
money. The “BOLI” for instance moved 78.8 million Euros to the CS and the
majority of the rest through apparent shell companies, Volbor Vontobel and
Vencon Holding. CONSPIRATOR 7 sent dozens of US, Dollar wires through
banks in Malta and Austria, including to aviation and yacht services as well as
brokerage companies in Miami, Florida.
These records not only exhibit the conspiracy in blint detail, but confirm the connection among
KRULL and the additional conspirators and the initial 78.8 million Euros in PDVSA funds
received by the CS. <
KRULL’s Additional V Venezuelan Laundering Schemes

110. Throughout,the course of KRULL’s scheme to launder the additional PDVSA
funds with the CS, KRULL presented other laundering schemes to the CS: One of the schemes
involved a relative of VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 3 who needed a way to receive kickbacks from
foreign law firms who had been hired by the Government of Venezuela.

111. KRULL first approached the CS with this scheme in the summer of 2017 because

KRULL needed a laundering structure for receiving the kickbacks. Both KRULL and the CS

agreed that GUSTAVO was again a good laundering option.

29
Case :1S-cr-20685-KMW Document frierecd on FLSD Docket 7/24/2018 Pade 32 of 33

112. On June 29, 2017, KRULL called the CS and, in a recorded conversation, the CS
told KRULL that he is in Los Angeles, California. KRULL said he has to be “candid and direct”
and stated:

Uh, I’m sitting here with, with, with, with the [title of VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL

3]’s brother.... And, and, and well, they, they, they have earned in the last years a

payment they’re going to receive that is for five [5]....Okay? And, and, and we

have been talking about the, the, the options they, they might have. Right? And,

and, and I don’t know if, if, if you have something that you, that you might think
of, as to how it can be, uh, things can be structured. Right?

113. The CS noted that it may be difficult based on the recipient's piofile, but said they
can talk more tomorrow and explained he will be flying to Miami then. Ina later recorded call on
June 29, 2017, KRULL further specified that these were payments from law firms that had handled
international arbitrations on the Venezuelan government’s behalf with international companies and
had charged the government a lot of money (5,000,000 U.S. Dollars). In a recorded call the next
day, June 30, 2018, the CS, KRULL, and VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 3’s brother discussed ways
to launder the payment which was again explicitly described as payments deriving from law firms
who represented Venezuelan government in arbitrations. Different options for laundering the
payments and “KYC” requireménts were discussed.

114. Ina recordéd August 25, 2017 meet with GUSTAVO in Miami, the CS explained
that KRULL had two sjients related to VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL 3 who needed a way to launder
the payments they are going to receive from attorneys who were hired by the Venezuelan
government. The CS specifically stated “the lawyers are giving them their. kick backs” and
GUSTAVO responded, “Mm-hmmm.” The CS then suggested that the lawyers themselves would
pay the kickback, and GUSTAVO immediately corrected him:

No, they can’t pay these two [2] guys. No, that’s impossible.... Just imagine.

Specially nowadays with OFAC, and with all of these people reviewing every
money transfer every day. .... Brother, that’s kindergarten Algebra. Right? Well,

30
 

we will have to give a vehicle to each one of these guys...A private fund...The
same thing we did for [ORTEGA].

115. Inrecorded meetings on August 29, 2017 and November 14, 2017 with KRULL in
Miami, the CS and KRULL further discussed the kick-back laundering scheme.
CONCLUSION
116. Based on the foregoing, probable cause exists that the defendants conspired to
launder monetary instruments, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h), and
did travel in and use facilities of interstate and foreign commerce to further the laundering

activities, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1952. y -

Respectfully submitted,

Sah _

GEORGE F. FERNANREZ, § SPECIAL AGENT,
4 HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS

Sworpeand subscribed before me
thig7v—day of July, 2018.

 

 

“EDWIN @. TORRES “
unity STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
4

31
