#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, October 31, 2018

Former Executive Director at Venezuelan State-Owned Oil Company, Petroleos De Venezuela,
S.A., Pleads Guilty to Role in Billion-Dollar Money Laundering Conspiracy

A former executive director at the Venezuelan state-owned oil company, Petréleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA), pleaded guilty today for his role
in a billion-dollar international scheme to launder funds embezzled from PDVSA.

Assistant Attorney General Brian A. Benczkowski of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Ariana Fajardo Orshan of the
Southern District of Florida and Special Agent in Charge Mark Selby of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security
Investigations (HSI) Miami Field Office made the announcement.

Abraham Edgardo Ortega, 51, a Venezuelan national, who was PDVSA’s executive director of financial planning, pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit money laundering. He is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 9, 2019 by U.S. District Judge Kathleen M. Williams of the
Southern District of Florida, who accepted his plea today.

As part of his plea, Ortega admitted that in his position with PDVSA, he accepted $5 million in bribes to give priority loan status to a French
company and a Russian bank, which were both minority shareholders in joint ventures with PDVSA. Ortega was paid for this bribery scheme
with the proceeds of a currency exchange scheme, through which $1.2 billion was embezzled, through bribery and fraud from PDVSA. Ortega
also admitted that in his position with PDVSA, he accepted $12 million in bribes for his participation in a PDVSA embezzlement scheme involving
a loan and foreign-exchange contract.

Ortega admitted that he worked with a co-defendant to launder $12 million that he received as bribe payments. Ortega admitted that he and
his co-defendant laundered $12 million through a sophisticated false-investment scheme that received money from a payment made to look
like an investment into a fund, but, in fact, the payment was actually laundered out of the fund. Surrounding and supporting this false-
investment laundering scheme were complicit money managers, brokerage firms, banks and real estate investment firms in the United States
and elsewhere, operating as a network of professional money launderers, Ortega admitted.

Ortega’s co-conspirators indicted on Aug. 16 include former PDVSA officials, professional third-party money launderers and members of the
Venezuelan elite, sometimes known as “boliburgués.”

An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of
law.

This case is the result of ongoing efforts by the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force’s (OCDETF) “Operation Money Flight,” a
partnership among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. The OCDETF mission is to identify, investigate and prosecute high-level
members of drug trafficking enterprises, bringing together the combined expertise and unique abilities of federal, state and local law
enforcement.

HSI Miami, HS! London, HSI Rome and HSI Madrid investigated this case. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief David Johnson and
Trial Attorney Gwendolyn A. Stamper of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael B. Nadler of the Southern
District of Florida’s Economic and Environmental Crimes Section. Assistant U.S. Attorney Nalina Sombuntham of the Southern District of Florida
is handling the asset forfeiture aspects of the case.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs provided substantial assistance in this matter. The National Crime Agency of the United
Kingdom and Italian, Spanish and Maltese law enforcement authorities also provided assistance.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) matters. Additional information
about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):
Criminal Division
riminal - Criminal Fr tion

Press Release Number:
18-1427

Updated October 31, 2018
