cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Sixth Mortgage Company to
Address Deceptive Loan Advertisements Sent to Servicemembers and Veterans

SEP 01, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against Service 1st Mortgage, Inc. (Service 1st), a mortgage broker based in
Glen Burnie, Maryland that is licensed in about 12 states. Service 1st offers and provides
mortgage loans guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
Service 1st's principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed loans is through direct-mail
advertisements sent primarily to United States military servicemembers and veterans. The
Bureau found that in advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages Service 1st sent consumers
numerous mailers that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements or that lacked
required disclosures, in violation of the Consumer Financial Protection Act’s (CFPA)
prohibition against deceptive acts and practices, the Mortgage Acts and Practices—
Advertising Rule (MAP Rule), and Regulation Z. The consent order requires Service 1st to
pay a civil money penalty and imposes requirements to prevent future violations.

Today’s action is the sixth case stemming from a Bureau sweep of investigations of multiple
mortgage companies that use deceptive mailers to advertise VA-guaranteed mortgages.
The Bureau commenced this sweep in response to concerns about potentially unlawful
advertising in the market that the VA identified. This ongoing sweep of investigations
reflects the Bureau’s commitment to enforcing the laws that ensure the financial

marketplace is fair and accurate for all consumers, including servicemembers, veterans, and
surviving spouses whom VA-guaranteed mortgages are designed to benefit.

The Bureau found that, since December 2015, Service 1st disseminated advertisements that
contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements or that failed to include required
disclosures. For example, Service 1st advertised specific credit terms, such as APRs and
hypothetical payment amounts that it was not prepared to offer, or that it could only offer
for an introductory period but advertised as if they were permanent loan terms. Service 1st
also used terms in millions of its advertisements that falsely represented or implied that
Service 1st was affiliated with the government, including the VA, that the advertised product
was endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with the United States government, or that the
United States government was the source of the advertisements. In addition, in
advertisements mailed between April 2016 and May 2017, Service 1st stated that it would
pay an estimated escrow refund of a specific amount if the consumer refinanced through
Service 1st, even though the advertised escrow refund amount was calculated using a
method that would not yield an actual estimate for that consumer, and in cash-out
transactions the “refund” was actually added to the principal of the consumer's loan.

Service 1st also sent advertisements between December 2015 and April 2017 representing
that a consumer could “[s]kip two payments” or “miss” two payments by refinancing with the
company, but it did not disclose the limitations on this option, or that the skipped or missed
payments would be added to the principal balance of the consumer's loan. Its
advertisements also stated: “the Economic Stimulus Program will end soon. There is
currently no plan to extend the Stimulus Program,” which was untrue. Finally, many Service
1st advertisements included claims or terms that require additional disclosures, but Service
1st failed to make these disclosures.

The consent order against Service 1st requires it to pay a civil penalty of $230,000. The
consent order also imposes injunctive relief to prevent future violations, including requiring
Service 1st to bolster its compliance functions by: (1) designating an advertising compliance
official who must review its mortgage advertisements for compliance with mortgage
advertising laws prior to the dissemination of the advertisements; (2) prohibiting
misrepresentations similar to those the Bureau found it has made; and (3) requiring it to
comply with certain enhanced disclosure requirements to prevent future
misrepresentations.

The consent order against Service 1st can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_service-1st-mortgage-inc_consent-

 

rder_2020-09.pdf)

The other consent orders stemming from the sweep can be found here
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/enforcement/actions/service-1st-mortgage-inc/ (cfpb.g
ov/enforcement/actions/service-1st-mortgage-inc/)

 

HHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
