#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT «f° J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, May 14, 2019

U.S. Executive Sentenced to Prison for Role in Conspiracy to Violate Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

The owner of a Hawaii-based engineering and consulting company was sentenced to 30 months in prison yesterday for his involvement in an
international bribery conspiracy, announced Assistant Attorney General Brian A. Benczkowski of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and
Special Agent in Charge Sean Kaul of the FBI’s Honolulu Field Office.

Frank James Lyon, 53, a U.S. citizen residing in Hawaii, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Susan O. Mollway of the District of Hawaii. Lyon
pleaded guilty on Jan. 22 to a one-count information filed in the District of Hawaii charging him with conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and to commit federal program fraud.

According to admissions made as part of his plea agreement, between 2006 and 2016, Lyon and his co-conspirators paid bribes to foreign
officials in the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) and to Hawaii state officials in exchange for those officials’ assisting Lyon’s company in
obtaining and retaining contracts valued at more than $10 million. The bribes included, among other things, cash to FSM officials and Hawaii
officials, and vehicles, gifts and entertainment for FSM officials.

In a related matter, Master Halbert, 44, a Micronesian citizen and government official, pleaded guilty on April 2, before Judge Mollway to one
count of conspiracy to commit money laundering. He is scheduled to be sentenced on July 29, 2019.

Trial Attorney Katherine Raut of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section is prosecuting the case. The Criminal Division’s Office of International
Affairs and the U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Inspector General provided significant assistance.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):
Criminal Division
riminal - Criminal Fr tion

USAO - Hawaii

Press Release Number:
19-522

Updated May 14, 2019
