UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,

100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, DC 20549,
Plaintiff,
Civil Action No.
vs.
TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD., COMPLAINT

Freier Platz 10
CH-8200 Schaffhausen
Switzerland,

Defendant.

 

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or "Commission") alleges:
NATURE OF THE ACTION

1. This matter concerns violations by Tyco International Ltd. (“Tyco”) of the books
and records, internal controls, and anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”).

2. Tyco is an international global manufacturing company based in Switzerland with
operations around the world. Tyco’s securities are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

3. In April 2006, the Commission filed a settled accounting fraud, disclosure, and
FCPA injunctive action against Tyco, pursuant to which the company consented to entry of a
final judgment enjoining it from violations of the anti-fraud, periodic reporting, books and
records, internal controls, proxy disclosure, and anti-bribery provisions of the federal securities

laws and ordering it to pay $1 in disgorgement and a $50 million civil penalty. The U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York entered the settled Final Judgment against Tyco on
May 1, 2006. At the time of settlement, Tyco had already committed to and commenced a
review of its FCPA compliance and a global, comprehensive internal investigation of possible
additional FCPA violations. As a result of that review and investigation, certain FCPA
violations have come to light for which the misconduct occurred, or the benefit to Tyco
continued, after the 2006 injunction. Those are the violations that are alleged in this Complaint.

4. As its global review and investigation progressed, Tyco voluntarily disclosed this
conduct to the Commission and took significant, broad-spectrum remedial measures. Those
remedial measures include: the initial FCPA review of every Tyco legal operating entity —
ultimately including 454 entities in 50 separate countries; active monitoring and evaluation of all
of Tyco’s agents and other relevant third-party relationships; quarterly ethics and compliance
training by over 4,000 middle-managers; FCPA-focused on-site reviews of higher risk entities;
creation of a corporate Ombudsman’s office and numerous segment-specific compliance counsel
positions; exit from several business operations in high-risk areas; and the termination of over 90
employees, including supervisors, because of FCPA-compliance concerns.

5. The FCPA misconduct reported by Tyco showed that Tyco’s books and records
were misstated as a result of at least twelve different, post-injunction illicit payment schemes
occurring at Tyco subsidiaries across the globe. The schemes frequently entailed illicit payments
to foreign officials that were inaccurately recorded so as to conceal the nature of the payments.
Those inaccurate entries were incorporated into Tyco’s books and records. Tyco thereby

violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15

U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].
6. Tyco also failed to devise and maintain internal controls sufficient to provide
reasonable assurances that all transactions were properly recorded in the company’s books,
records, and accounts. Tyco thereby violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]. As reflected in this Complaint, numerous Tyco subsidiaries engaged in
violative conduct, the conduct was carried out by several different methods, and the conduct
occurred over a lengthy period of time and continued even after the 2006 injunction.

7. Through one of the illicit payment schemes, Tyco violated the FCPA anti-bribery
provisions. Specifically, through the acts of its then-subsidiary and agent, TE M/A-COM, Inc.,
Tyco violated Section 30A(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-l(a)] by corruptly making
illicit payments to foreign government officials to obtain or retain business.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

8. The Commission brings this action pursuant to Sections 21(d), 21(e), and 27 of
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), 78aa]. Tyco, directly or indirectly, made use of
means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a national
securities exchange in connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business
alleged in this Complaint.

9. Venue is proper in this Court pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. § 78aa] or 28 U.S.C. § 1391(d).

DEFENDANT

10. Tyco is incorporated in Switzerland and has its principal place of business in

Switzerland. It issues and maintains a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78/] that trades on the New York Stock Exchange. It is required
to file periodic reports with the Commission under Section 13 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §
78m].
RELATED ENTITIES

11. At all times relevant, TE M/A-COM, Inc. (“M/A-COM”) was an indirect, wholly
owned subsidiary of Tyco incorporated in Florida with its principal place of business in Lowell,
Massachusetts. M/A-COM operated within the Electronics segment of Tyco until the split of
Tyco and Tyco Electronics Ltd. (“TE”) in or about June 2007, when it became a unit of TE. TE
divested all of the assets of M/A-COM in or about 2008.

12. At all times relevant, Tyco Thermal Controls (Huzhou) Co., Ltd. (“TTC
Huzhou”) and Tyco Thermal Controls (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (“TTC Shanghai”) were indirect,
wholly owned subsidiaries of Tyco incorporated in China. TTC Huzhou was formed in or about
October 2003, when Tyco acquired a company that manufactured electrical cables. Because
TTC Huzhou did not have its own sales or marketing staff, TTC Shanghai was largely
responsible for sales of TTC Huzhou’s products. (Collectively, these entities are referred to as
“TTC China.”)

13. At all times relevant, Tyco Waterworks Deutschland GmBH (“TWW Germany”)
was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco incorporated in Germany. TWW Germany
manufactured, marketed, and sold industrial valves for the water, gas, sewage, chemical, and
processing industries. These products were sold worldwide through a network of sales
representatives. Customers included government entities, such as municipal waterworks, and
private contractors. Tyco divested itself of TWW Germany in or about 2010.

14. _— At all times relevant, Tyco Fire & Integrated Solutions France (“TFIS France”)

was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco that was incorporated in France. TFIS France
sold fire extinguishing and detection products to residential customers and commercial
businesses.

15. At all times relevant, Tyco Flow Control Hong Kong Limited (“TFC HK”) and
Beijing Valve Co. Ltd. (“Keystone”) were indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of Tyco that were
incorporated under the laws of Hong Kong and China, respectively. TFC HK and Keystone sold
valves and controls products to commercial and government customers through direct sales and
local distributors.

16. At all times relevant, ADT Sensormatic Thailand Ltd. (“ADT Thailand”) was an
indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco that was incorporated in Thailand. ADT Thailand
designed, installed, and serviced mechanical, electrical, fire protection, security, and traffic
systems in Southeast Asia.

17. At all times relevant, Tyco Fire, Security & Services Malaysia SDN BHD (“TFS
Malaysia”) was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco that was incorporated in Malaysia.
TFS Malaysia designed, installed, serviced, and commissioned mechanical, electrical, fire
protection, security, and traffic systems in Malaysia.

18. = At all times relevant, Tyco Fire & Integrated Solutions (UK) Ltd. (“TFIS UK”)
was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco that was incorporated in the United Kingdom
and headquartered in Manchester, England. TFIS UK provided fire detection and suppression
systems for power generation and transmission plants.

19. At all times relevant, Tyco Healthcare International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
(“THC China”) was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco that was incorporated in

China. THC China operated within the Healthcare segment of Tyco until the split of Tyco and
Covidien Public Limited Company (“Covidien”) in or about June 2007, when it became a unit of
Covidien.

20. Atall times relevant, Tyco Healthcare Saudi Arabia (“THC Saudi Arabia”) was
an operational entity within Tyco Healthcare AG, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco
that was incorporated in Switzerland. THC Saudi Arabia operated within the Healthcare
segment of Tyco until the split of Tyco and Covidien in or about June 2007, when it became a
unit of Covidien.

21.  Atall times relevant, Tyco Healthcare Polska Sp.z.o.o. (“THC Polska”) was an
indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco that was incorporated in Poland. THC Polska
operated within the Healthcare segment of Tyco until the split of Tyco and Covidien in or about
June 2007, when it became a unit of Covidien.

STATEMENT OF FACTS

22. Tyco isa diversified global manufacturing company with operations around the
world. Starting in or about 1998 and continuing through at least 2009, the business of Tyco and
its subsidiaries took place in, among others, the People’s Republic of China, India, Thailand,
Croatia, Serbia, Saudi Arabia, Libya, Syria, the United Arab Emirates, Mauritania, the Congo,
Niger, Madagascar, Turkey, Poland, Malaysia, and Egypt.

M/A-COM — Turkey

23. M/A-COM, through its SIGINT Products business unit, retained a New York
City-based sales agent who made illicit payments in connection with a September 2006 sale of
microwave equipment to an instrumentality of the Turkish government. The agent, who was
contractually designated as M/A-COM’s sales agent for Turkey, sold the equipment to the entity

controlled by Turkey at a mark-up over the M/A-COM invoice price. The microwave receivers
were shipped from Hunt Valley, Maryland to the agent in New York, who then shipped them to
Turkey via New York, New York.

24. | Employees of M/A-COM were aware that the agent was paying foreign
government customers to obtain orders. One internal e-mail stated, “Hell, everyone knows you
have to bribe somebody to do business in Turkey. Nevertheless, I'll play it dumb if [M/A-
COM’s agent] should call.”

25. | Tyco exerted control over M/A-COM in part by utilizing dual roles for its
officers. At the time of the September 2006 transaction, four high-level Tyco officers were also
officers of M/A-COM, including one who was M/A-COM’s president. Additionally, one of
those Tyco officers served as one of five members of M/A-COM’s board of directors. While
there 1s no indication that any of these individuals knew of the illegal conduct described herein,
through the corporate structure used to hold M/A-COM and through the dual roles of these
officers, Tyco controlled M/A-COM. Asa result, M/A-COM was Tyco’s agent for purposes of
the September 2006 transaction, and the transaction was squarely within the scope of M/A-
COM’s agency.

26. The benefit obtained by Tyco as a result of the September 2006 deal was $44,513.

TTC China — Ministry of Public Security

27. In or about June 2005, TTC China signed a contract with the Chinese Ministry of
Public Security for $770,000, but reportedly paid approximately $3,700 to the “site project team”
of a state-owned corporation to obtain the contract. This amount was improperly recorded in
TTC China’s books and records as a commission, when in fact part of that amount was passed
along to the end-user. TTC China’s financial results were incorporated in Tyco’s publicly filed

financial statements. Tyco’s benefit as a result of these illicit payments was $192,500.
TWW Germany

28. © TWW Germany and/or its agents failed to enact and/or follow policies governing
the retention and payment of third-party agents/distributors.

29. | TWW Germany and/or its agents paid or promised to pay third parties to secure
contracts or avoid penalties or fines in several countries: the People’s Republic of China,
Croatia, India, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Syria, and the United Arab Emirates. The payments
were ostensibly booked as commissions and in a manner that did not reflect the ultimate
recipients of the funds. The payments related to projects ongoing from October 2004 to 2009.
In fact the payments were not commissions, but were used to pay employees of government
customers and for other purposes. These entries were consolidated within Tyco and, as a result,
caused Tyco’s books and records to be misstated. Tyco’s benefit as a result of these illicit
payments was $4,684,966.

TFIS France

30. | TFIS France and/or its agents made payments to individuals from 2005 to 2009
for “business introduction services.” One of the individuals receiving payments was a security
officer at a government-owned mining company in Mauritania, and a substantial amount of the
payments made before 2007 ultimately were deposited in that government official’s personal
bank account in France. These payments were not supported by written contracts or invoices and
were not accurately recorded in TFIS France’s books and records. In addition, TFIS France
and/or its agents paid sham “commissions” to approximately twelve other intermediaries in four
countries (Mauritania, the Congo, Niger, and Madagascar). The inaccurate entries were
incorporated into Tyco’s books and records. Tyco’s benefit as a result of these illicit payments

was $1,256,389.
TFC HK and Keystone — China

31. | TFC HK and Keystone failed to follow Tyco’s internal control policies and
procedures governing the retention and payment of third-party agents/distributors. TFC HK and
Keystone also failed to maintain an appropriate system to ensure accuracy in its books and
records regarding payments to sales agents and distributors.

32. Between 2005 and August 2006, THC HK and Keystone paid approximately
$246,000 to an agent in connection with sales to a large, government-owned Chinese
petrochemical company, although Tyco is unable to ascertain what, if any, legitimate services
were performed by the agent. As a result, Tyco’s books and records were misstated. Tyco’s
benefit as a result of these illicit payments was $181,504.

33. | TFC HK and Keystone also had other improper arrangements with agents.
Approximately $137,000 was paid to agencies owned by approximately eight Keystone sales
employees in 2005 and 2006, and those employees in turn transferred some portion of that
amount in cash or gifts to government officials, including design institutes, in the People’s
Republic of China. The amounts in question were incorrectly recorded as proper commissions to
hide the fact that the payments were made to companies owned by Keystone employees. Asa
result, Tyco’s books and records were misstated. Tyco’s benefit as a result of these illicit
payments was $196,584.

ADT Thailand — CCTV

34. From in or about 2000 to in or about 2006, ADT Thailand maintained inaccurate
books and records in connection with multiple transactions and failed to implement policies to

ensure accurate record-keeping.
35. In connection with a contract to install a CCTV system in the Thai Parliament
House in 2006, ADT Thailand paid over $50,000 to a Thai entity that acted as a consultant. The
invoice related to this payment refers to “renovation work,” but Tyco is unable to ascertain what,
if any, work was done. As a result, Tyco’s books and records were misstated. Tyco’s benefit as
a result of these illicit payments was $104,117.

TFS Malaysia

36. | From 2000 to 2007, TFS Malaysia used intermediaries to pay the employees of its
customers when bidding on contracts. Payments were made to approximately twenty-six
employees of customers, and one of those payees was an employee of a government-controlled
entity. TFS Malaysia inaccurately described these expenses as “commissions” and failed to
maintain policies sufficient to prohibit such payments. As a result, Tyco’s books and records
were misstated. Tyco’s benefit as a result of these illicit payments was $45,972.

TFIS UK — Egypt

37. | From in or about 2004 to in or about 2008, an Egyptian agent of TFIS UK wired
approximately $282,022 to a former employee’s personal bank account with the understanding
that the money would be used in connection with entertainment expenses for representatives of a
company majority-owned by the Egyptian government. A portion of the funds was used to pay
for lodging, meals, transportation, spending money, and entertainment expenses for that
company’s officials on two trips to the United Kingdom in 2005 and 2006 and two trips to the
United States in 2007 and 2008.

38. TFIS UK made payments pursuant to inflated invoices submitted by the
company’s Egyptian agent, who wired funds to the former employees to be used to entertain

foreign officials.

10
39. | TFIS UK’s books and records did not accurately reflect TFIS UK’s understanding
that the funds would be used for entertainment of government officials, and TFIS UK did not
maintain sufficient internal controls over its payments to agents. As a result, Tyco’s books and
records were misstated.

40.  Tyco’s benefit as a result of these illicit payments was $1,589,374.

THC Saudi Arabia

41. Beginning in or about December 2000 and continuing into at least June 2006,
THC Saudi Arabia’s distributor in Saudi Arabia used a “control account” to make payments at
THC Saudi Arabia’s direction to doctors and hospital officials in Saudi Arabia, including those
employed by agencies or instrumentalities of the Saudi government. The control account was
not a bank account, but rather a general ledger account.

42. | While some disbursements from the control account were used for legitimate
expenses, several items were booked improperly as “promotional expenses” and “sales
development” expenses. As a result, Tyco’s books and records were misstated. In connection
with the transactions related to these inaccurate books and records, Tyco’s benefit was
approximately $1,900,600.

THC China

43. From in or about September 2004 to in or about January 2007, employees of THC
China submitted approximately 33 expense claims related to entertainment of public healthcare
officials of the People’s Republic of China. THC China then reimbursed those expenses. Some
of the expenses were supported by fictitious receipts, including references to a non-existent

company. In connection with the expenses, at least one THC China employee forged receipts

11
and applied a “seal” for a bogus company. Employees forged receipts because the actual
expenditures were prohibited under Tyco’s internal guidelines.

44. From 2001 to 2008, THC China employees submitted false itineraries and other
documentation that did not properly identify travel expenses incurred in connection with medical
conferences. The inaccurate recordkeeping related to payment by THC China for trips or
portions of trips for publicly employed doctors in the People’s Republic. As a result, Tyco’s
books and records were misstated.

45. In connection with the transactions related to these inaccurate books and records,
Tyco’s benefit was approximately $353,800.

THC Polska

46. — From in or about January 2005 to in or about December 2007, THC Polska used
“service contracts” to hire public healthcare professionals in Poland for various purposes,
including conducting training sessions, performing clinical studies, and distributing marketing
materials. Approximately five such service contracts involved falsified records and
approximately twenty-six other service contracts involved incomplete and inaccurate records,
including some related expenses paid by THC Polska to family members of healthcare
professionals. As a result, Tyco’s books and records were misstated. In connection with the
transactions related to these inaccurate books and records, Tyco’s benefit was approximately
$14,673.

FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Foreign Bribery
[Violations of Section 30A(a) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1(a)]

47. Paragraphs | through 46 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

12
48. As described above, Tyco, through its officers, employees, and agents, corruptly
offered, promised to pay, or authorized payments to one or more persons, while knowing that all
or a portion of those payments would be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to
foreign officials for the purpose of influencing their acts or decisions in their official capacity,
inducing them to do or omit to do actions in violation of their official duties, securing an
improper advantage, or inducing such foreign officials to use their influence with foreign
governments or instrumentalities thereof to assist Tyco in obtaining or retaining business.

49. __ By reason of the foregoing, Tyco violated, and unless enjoined will continue to
violate, Section 30A(a) of the Exchange Act.

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Books and Records

[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act,
15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]

50. Paragraphs 1 through 46 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

51. The Exchange Act requires each issuer of registered securities to make and keep
books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
business of the issuer.

52. As described above, Tyco, through its officers, employees, and agents, failed to
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its
transactions and dispositions of its assets.

53. By reason of the foregoing, Tyco violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange

Act.

13
THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Internal Controls

[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act,
15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]

54. Paragraphs 1 through 46 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

55. | The Exchange Act requires each issuer of registered securities to devise and
maintain a system of internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among
other things, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements
and to maintain accountability for assets.

56. Tyco failed to devise and maintain such a system of internal controls and was
therefore unable to detect the violations set forth above. As described above, numerous Tyco
subsidiaries engaged in violative conduct, the conduct was carried out by several different
methods, the conduct occurred over a lengthy period of time, and it continued even after the
2006 injunction.

57. By reason of the foregoing, Tyco violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange
Act.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter judgment:

a) permanently enjoining Defendant Tyco from violating Sections 30A(a),
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1(a),
78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)];

b) ordering Defendant Tyco to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a
result of its illegal conduct in the amount of $10,564,992 and prejudgment interest

thereon in the amount of $2,566,517; and

14
c) granting such other relief as this Court may deem just and appropriate.
Dated: September 24, 2012

Respectfully Submitted,

Veh. Ges

Scott W. Friestad

David Frohlich (DC 9 No. 425928)
Matthew B. Greiner (DC Bar No. 448480)
Stephen E. Jones (DC Bar No. 431164)
Brent S. Mitchell (DC Bar No. 464083)

Attorneys for Plaintiff

Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, D.C. 20549-4030
Telephone: (202) 551-4526 (Greiner)
Facsimile: (202) 772-9286

15
