#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday, March 6, 2020

Former Senior Alstom Executive Sentenced to Prison for Role in Money Laundering Scheme to
Promote Foreign Bribery

A former senior executive with Alstom S.A. (Alstom), a French power and transportation company, was sentenced in federal court in New Haven,
Connecticut, to 15 months in prison today for his role in a multi-year, multimillion-dollar money laundering scheme designed to promote
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).

Assistant Attorney General Brian A. Benczkowski of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney John H. Durham of the District of
Connecticut and Assistant Director in Charge Paul D. Delacout of the FBI’s Los Angeles Office made the announcement.

Lawrence Hoskins, 69, was sentenced on charges of conspiracy and money laundering, following his conviction in November 2019, after a one-
week jury trial before U.S. District Judge Janet Bond Arterton, who imposed today’s sentence. In addition to his prison term, Hoskins was fined
$30,000.

According to the evidence presented at trial, Hoskins was a senior vice president for Alstom’s International Network, who engaged ina
conspiracy to promote the payment of bribes to officials in Indonesia in exchange for assistance in securing a $118 million contract, known as
the Tarahan project, for Alstom Power Inc. of Connecticut and its consortium partner, Marubeni Corporation, to provide power-related services
for the citizens of Indonesia. The officials in Indonesia included a high-ranking member of the Indonesian Parliament and the President of
Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN), the state-owned and state-controlled electricity company in Indonesia. To conceal the bribes, Hoskins and his
co-conspirators retained two consultants purportedly to provide legitimate consulting services on behalf of Alstom Power Inc., in connection with
the Tarahan project. The primary purpose of hiring the consultants was to conceal the bribes to Indonesian officials, the evidence showed.

The first consultant retained by Hoskins and other members of the conspiracy received hundreds of thousands of dollars in his Maryland bank
account to be used to bribe the member of Parliament, the evidence showed. The consultant then transferred the bribe money to a bank
account in Indonesia for the benefit of the official. According to emails admitted at trial, Hoskins and other co-conspirators discussed in detail
the use of the first consultant to funnel bribes to the member of Parliament and the influence that the member of Parliament could exert over
the Tarahan project, including referring to him as a “cashier.”

The trial evidence further showed that, in the fall of 2003, Hoskins and his co-conspirators determined that the first consultant was not
effectively bribing key officials at PLN, who expressed concerns that the first consultant was just going to give them “pocket money” and
“disappear” after Alstom Power Inc. won the project. As a result, the co-conspirators retained a second consultant to more effectively bribe PLN
officials. Evidence revealed that Hoskins and his co-conspirators pressed Alstom Power Inc. to front-load the second consultant’s terms of
payment in order to “get the right influence” due to upcoming elections. Hoskins and his co-conspirators were successful in securing the
Tarahan project and subsequently made payments to the consultants for the purpose of bribing the Indonesian officials.

The FBI's Los Angeles Field Office is investigating the case with assistance from the FBI’s Meriden, Connecticut, Resident Agency. The
department appreciates the significant cooperation provided by its law enforcement colleagues in Indonesia, Switzerland's Office of the
Attorney General and the United Kingdom, as well as authorities in France, Germany, Italy, Singapore and Taiwan.

Senior Deputy Chief Daniel S. Kahn and Assistant Chief Lorinda Laryea of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David
E. Novick of the District of Connecticut are prosecuting the case.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal-fr foreign-corrupt-practi

The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice. Learn more about the history of our agency

at www. |ustice.gov/Celebrating150Years.

 

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):
Criminal Division

riminal - Criminal Fr tion
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
USAO - Connecticut

Press Release Number:
20-287

Updated March 6, 2020
