2020-BCFP-0013 Document1 Filed 09/01/2020 Page 1 of 56

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0013

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Service Ist Mortgage, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of Service Ist Mortgage, Inc. (Service
Ist or Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24 of
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in
Lending Act (TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts
and Practices—Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. §
1014.3; and §§ 1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12

U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order.
AAA Per mA a Oo Rw ens
OS0-BCFR-OOTS Doo

athe A A

Overview
Service Ist is a mortgage broker that offers and provides mortgages
guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). As a
broker, it arranges for another creditor to provide loans.
Service [st advertises these mortgage products to consumers through direct-
mail advertising Campaigns targeted primaniy at United States military
servicemembers and veterans.
Service Ist has sent consumers millions of advertisements that violate
federal law because they contain misleading and deceptive statements and
madeguate disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop Service Ist from distributmg
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.

i.
surisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §$ 1053 and 1055 of the
CPPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 3563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lendmg Act, 12
U.S.C. 8 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as

amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 85538.
6.

ANAAA Derm AAS Pens ven eh AOIPM A POP ary Sy ae ees ~
at ot thee Bee BP oF ke gag SANS Pees eae A a, ot ty ashe eS oye ~~
SUCU EGP Pe Gh WOCUMENIE GQ UU ce. age o OF oO
Hi.

Stipulati
ation
tpulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 18, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under $$
1053 and 1055 of the CFP A, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau's jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.
TV.

Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertismg Complance Official’ means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 132. The Advertismg Complhance
Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g¢., president,
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,

chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
&

AAA TEES ANAS =
POSO-BOER.OO18 Docuy
mur N

athe A A

of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be m a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears; presented before the consumer mcurs any
fmancial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.
“Eifective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Entorcement Director’ means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exetnplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contamed in the advertisement as sent, posted,
published, or dissemimated to a consumer.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of

one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
10.

LL,

AAA TEES ANAS =
POSO-BOER.OO18 Macy
mur N

athe A A

governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent
Order.

g. “Relevant Period” includes from December 1, 2015, to the Effective
Date.

n. “Respondent means Service ist Mortgage, Inc., and its successors
and assigns.

Vy.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Service [stis a Maryland corporation with its principal place of business in
Gien Burnie, Maryland.

Service Istis hcensed as a mortgage broker in about 12 states.

Service Istis a “person,” as defined m the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 8 5481(19),
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. $ 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.FLR. §
1014.2, because it is a corporation.

Durmg the Relevant Period, Service Isthas beena “covered person” under
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages in

offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer
12.

14,

16.

7,

AAA TEES ANAS =
POSO-BOER.OO18 Docuy
mur N

athe A A

financial product(s] or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(S), (6),
(15 )CA)G).
During the Relevant Period, Service Ist has been subject to the MAP Rule

because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has

12 C.PLR.$ 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C, § 548104).

Service Ist provides “mortgage credit product/s|,” as that term is defined in
the MAP Rule. 12 C.F_BR. § 1014.2.

Service Ist’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
m i2CLPLR. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, Service Ist has offered “closed-end credit” in
the form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation 7. 12 CLR LR. § 1026.2(a)010) & C1).

Service Ist’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end
credit,” as that term is defined im Regulation 7. 12 C.F.R. $ 1026.2(a)(10).
Service Ist offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed by

the VA.
18,

20.

22.

23,

AAA TEES ANAS =
POSO-BOER.OO18 Docuy
rs. N

athe A A

Service Ist’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, mcludmg veterans
and servicemembers.
Since December 2015, Service Ist has mailed millions of mortgage
advertisements to consumers in at least 12 states.
Hundreds of thousands of consumers have received at least one of Service
ist’s direct-mail advertisements, and thousands of consumers have obtamed
mortgages through Service Ist.
False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations

Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, Service Ist was responsible for both the content
of, and the dissemimation of, numerous mortgage advertisements during the
Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements,
as described below.

Faise, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations About Cost
Most of Service Ist’s mortgage advertisements stated specific credit terms,

such as an interest rate, annual percentage rate (APR), and payment amount.
24,

20,

28.

29,

30,

AAA TEES ANAS =
POSO-BOER.OO18 Docuy
mur N

athe A A

By stating specrfic credit terms in its advertisements, Service Ist
represented, expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a
mortgage with those credit terms.

In fact, Service Ist did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific
credit terms stated in many of those advertisements. While the advertised
introductory interest rate was available, the advertised APR was not.

In numerous instances, Service Ist misrepresented the actual credit terms
appheable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

About 134,000 of the advertisements that Service Ist sentin 2018 described
mortgages with a simple imterest rate and APR combination that, on the date
of the advertisement and im the GO days preceding, Service Ist was not
actually prepared to arrange or offer.

For example, in January 2018, Service Ist advertised an adjustable-rate
mortgage with a of 2.25% introductory rate and an APR of 2.61%,

But Service [st did not offer such a loan, as reflected in the rate sheets of its
lenders. While the advertised introductory interest rate was available, the
advertised APR was not.

Accordingly, Service Ist misrepresented the actual APR for loans offered in

these advertisements.
31,

33.

34,

Cn
CFI

AAA TEES ANAS =
POSO-BOER.OO18 Docuy
mur N

athe A A

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 27-30
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtamme a loan.

False and Misleading Representations
Relating to Cost Comparisons

Numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements also contamed misleading
comparisons between hypothetical credit terms and the terms of the
advertised product.

Specifically, Service Ist sent advertisements to more than 250,000
consumers between December 2016 to January 2017 that made a
comparison between a hypothetical payment amount for the consumer’ s
current debt and an advertised payment amount for the advertised loan.
The payment amount tor the advertised loan was not available for the full
term of the loan and the advertisement did not reveal this fact.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 33-35
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaming a loan.
38.

39.

AO.

2020-BCFP-0013 Document1 Filed 09/01/2020 Page 10 of 56

False and Misleading Representations About an
Affiliation with the Government

Notwithstanding that the name “Service Ist” appeared in all the
advertisements, numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements falsely
represented, directly or by implication, from various formats and phrases,
that Service Ist was affilhated with the government, including the VA, that
the advertised product was endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with the
United States government, or that the United States government was the
source of the advertisement. Though many of the advertisements contained a
disclaimer that Service Ist was not affiliated with a government agency, the
disclaimer was in fine print at the bottom of the advertisement or on the
second page of the advertisement.
The disclaimer was not sufficient to dispel the false net impression created
by the advertisement when viewed as a whole.
For example, each of about 3.3 million Service Ist advertisements sent to
servicemembers and veterans between December 2015 and January 2018
contained the following statements:
a. “TIRRRL—Benefit Allotment” or “IRRRL—1003 Benefit Allotment”
positioned in the upper-left corner of the advertisement, followed by
“Form 21-0760 Eligibility Notification” on the second line, which

also appeared through the window of the envelope;
b.

AMAA MAAR AMAS Py ok ~ ma are . ~A
MOORE DLAYTS Pinaciirpaent 4 Pia Old PeAan Deven Aft Re
Bn SP tn PME ET Le fot eh AER rd : Natta A Bo SF Bon So Xe DAG

“Understanding your VA IRRRL Benefit Statement” centered
prominently mn bold letters across the top of the advertisement;

“VA TRERL Notification” at the top of the advertisement, which also
appeared through the window of the envelope;

“Important VA Eheibilty Information” in capital letters across the
upper-right corner of the advertisement;

“2016 VA Benefits Notice” m the upper-right corner of the
advertisement;

“Your VA Guaranteed loan with [current lender| has been tagged for
mclusion in our VA IRRL program” in the body of the letter;

“This program is limited to only the beneficiary above and is
nontransferable”;

“fo accept your benefits and reductions have Notice Number ready
and call Home Assistance Department’;

“As a veteran, you are entitled to loan programs guaranteed by the
Veterans Administration’;

“Please call our VA Ehoibilty Department by [date] and your next

payment may not be due until [date]”;
Al,

42,

Ad.

ARAN RAPER AMA me my mA ~. ’ Se
SOCORRO ELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/O7 feoe0 Pane 12 of S64
Band tn at RP EE Le a Et BHAA Ed P Peeks Vie CAF EAN & A oe Wt PS

k, “Tocontirm your ehgibihty for this VA Loan Guarantee Program
contact your VA Loan Representative [phone number] no later than
[date] to confirm benefits before they expire,”

L “Note: The Economic Stimulus Program will end soon. There is
currently no plan to extend the Strmulus Program;” and

m. “Records indicate that your benefits underthis VA approved program

may expire |date].”

While the envelopes for these maulers varied, several of these mavers were
sent in security envelopes with perforated opening mechanisms bearmeg
barcodes and the words “Personal and Confidential.” Others arrived m
envelopes labeled “Official Documentation.”

These statements and other characteristics relating to the mailing strongly
mnphed that the solicitations were being sent by or on behalf of the United
States government, inchiding the VA,

Those representations were faise because Service Ist was not affihated with
the government, mcluding the VA, nor were the products offered in these
advertisements endorsed by, sponsored by, or affihated with the
government, inchiding the VA.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 38-43

were likely to be misled by them.
AS,

AG,

AT,

AS,

AY.

AOA Perr aot Pn ee ae eal ret yt ~ oe tn ms
SOCORRO ELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/O7 feoe0 Pane Ta of SG
Sai Uh eb Fd Le fot eh AER rd : Natta A Bow NaF Bim Sy he wor

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtamme a loan.

False and Misleading Representations
Aboutan Escrow Refund Amount

About 1.9 milion of the advertisements Service Ist sent between April
2016 and May 2017 stated that a recipient will receive an “EST. ESCROW
REPUND AMOUNT” of aspecific amount if that consumer refinances his
or her mortgage.

The escrow refund amounts that Service Ist advertised were calculated
using a methodology that had no bearing on the actual escrow refund
amount.

Moreover, for at least the advertised cash-out refinance loans, if the
purported escrow refund was provided as cash to the borrower at the

time of the refinance, Service Ist then added it to the principal

balance of the new loan.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 46—
48 were hkely to have been misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.
SL.

54,

Ck
tN

36.

ARAA RAPS AMMAN ~ a om ON TN A Ee o~ AG
SOAR AQT Phevesirpvcant 4 Clan AOA feoen Bane tA
me Kee a POT AAS bd BALE EASE ERT Pt. we a

False Representations About Skipping Loan Payments

Service Ist sent about 900,000 advertisements between December 2015 and
Apri 2017 representing that a consumer can “[s|kip two payments” or
“miss” two payments by refmancing with the company.

For example, Service Ist sent a mailer in June 2016 advertising that if a
consumer refinanced, “the VA would allow you to skip the payments for
July and August and receive a full escrow refund. By havinga VA loan, you
are quahfied for this program.”

But consumers had the option of “skipping” or “missing” two payments
only if specific timing requirements were met. Service Ist did not disclose
this Imitation mits advertisements.

Service Ist would then add the purported “skipped” or “missed” paymenis
to the principal balance of the mortgage, which it also failed to disclose in
its advertisements.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 51—
54 were likely to have been misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaming a loan.
59,

60.

61.

SAAA MPR Ara PV um ~~ mF a ~ my ~ oy
SPOOL BCERLANRAS Pinaciirpaent 4 Pia Old PeAan Dane a at AG
Batt UPd wi bot RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od : Sarat A Bae A oa X x MS not

False Representations About the
Time-Limited Availability of the VA-Loan Program

About 1.i milhon of the advertisements Service Ist sent stated: “the
Economic Stimulus Program will end soon. There is currently no plan to
extend the Stimulus Program.”
This statement regarding the purported time-limited availabilty of the
VA loan program was untrue.
Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 57
and 58 were likely to be misled by them.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaming a loan.

inadequate Disclosures
Many of Service Ist’s mortgage advertisements stated the amount of a new
loan payment and an introductory interest rate for adjustable mortgages.
Under certam sections of Regulation 7, mcluding § 1026.24(d), and (1), the
use of these terms triggers specific disclosure requirements. About 1.6
milion of Service Ist’s advertisements included these trigger terms, but did
not include the disclosures required by § 1026.24(d), and about 134,000 of
its advertisements included these trigger terms, but did not include the

disclosures required by § 1026.24(1).
62,

63.

64,

65.

66.

APO PAAR ARS > ‘
AOL BE RLAMAS Mie issycinmt 4
MPR TELS Le PG WAS ba BAAR kd

About 250,000 of Service Ist’s advertisements made a comparison between
an estimated current payment amount and an estimated new payment
amount under an advertised refinance loan, but did not include the
disclosures required by § 1026.24G)(2).
In addition, about 1.8 milhon of Service Ist’s mortgage advertisements
stated the name of the consumer’s current lender, but did not include the
additional disclosures required by Regulation Z in § 1026.24G0)(4).
Disclosures Triggered by Payment Amount
Numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements stated the amount of the
new loan payment, but failed to state the terms of repayment reflecting the
recipient's repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, as required
by § 1026.24).
For example, Service Ist sent about 1.6 millon advertisements to consumers
stating a “new principal and interest payment” reflecting a new monthly
payment amount.
But these advertisements cid not state the period of the loan or the number
of required payments. Moreover, the payment amount advertised was
applicable for only the first three or five years of the loan, but the
advertisements did not disclose the subsequent payments required over the

full term of the loan, as required by § 1026.24(d\(2)Gn).
67,

68.

69.

BOA BCE BLAIS Rarcinant 4
MPR TELS Le PG WAS ba BAAR kd

Three milion of Service Ist’s advertisements also failed to disclose in a
clear and conspicuous manner the amount of each payment that would apply
over the term of the loan, the period of time during which each payment
would apply, and the fact, apphcable to these loans, that the payments did
not include amounts for taxes and insurance premiums and that the actual
payment obligation would be greater, as required by § 1026.24((3).
For example, the advertisements provided the amount of the recipient’s new
monthly payment, but included neither the amount of each payment that
would apply over the life of the loan (despite it being an adjustable rate
mortgage), nor the period during which cach payment would apply.
Furthermore, the advertisements failed to disclose that the advertised
payment amounts excluded taxes and insurance and that the actual payment
obhgation would be greater.

Disclosures Triggered by Introductory Interest Rate
Numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements offering a loan for which
more than one interest rate would apply included a simple annual rate of
interest, but failed to clearly and conspicuously state each sumple annual
mterest rate that would apply, the period of ime during which each simple
annual interest rate would apply, and for variable-rate loans, an APR that

comphes with the accuracy standards in 12 C.F.R. $$ 1026.17{c) and
70,

71,

72,

APO PAAR ARS > ‘
AOL BE RLAMAS Mie issycinmt 4
MPR TELS Le PG WAS ba BAAR kd

1026.22, as required by Regulation Z, 12 C.FLR. § 1026.24).
For example, Service ist sent about 134,000 advertisements for a variable-
rate mortgage to consumers offermg an introductory annual rate of interest
that would apply for the first three or five years of the loan, but that did not
disclose each simple interest rate that would apply over the remaining term
of the loan. These advertisements also stated the period for the introductory
rate—three or five years—but not the twenty-seven or twenty-five-year term
for the fully-indexed rate.
In addition, about 134,000 advertisements sent to consumers in January
2018 offered a mortgage with a 2.25% imtroductory interest rate that applied
to the first three years of the loan and a 2.61% APR. In fact, the lowest APR
that would have been available from Service Ist’s lenders within 60 days
before any day m January 201% for the loans promoted in those
advertisements was at least 3.388%, which was not within the accuracy
standards in 8§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22. While the advertised introductory
interest rate was available, the advertised APR was not.

Disclosures Triggered by Cost Comparisons
Numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements also made a comparison
between actual or hypothetical credit payments or rates anda payment that

would be available under the advertised product fora period less than the
ma}
fae

74,

75,

76.

Ti],

ARAN RARE AMMAN PA oo ee ~ mA mA — x
SPOOL BCERLANRAS Praciirnant 4 Pia Old PeAan Rane TO At RG
Sai tee ot we AS Pot BaP AS SPEER Pkg 3 Yet A oa AF Baw 3 Xe ee Not ks

full term of the loan, but failed to clearly and conspicuously make a
comparison to each payment that will apply over the term of the loan, as
required by Regulation 7, 12 C.FLR. §$ 1026.24@)(2).
Specifically, about 250,000 advertisements sent to consumers from
December 2016 to January 2017 made a comparison between the
consumer’ s estimated current payment and an estimated payment if the
consumer refinanced with the company.
The payment amount for the advertised refinance loan was not available for
the full period of the loan, but only for the first three or five years of the
loan.
The advertisements did not mclude a clear and conspicuous comparison to
each payment that would apply over the term of the loan.

Disclosures Triggered by Current Lender Name
Numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements used the name of the
consumer’ s current lender, but failed to disclose Service Ist’s name with
equal prominence, or to include a clear and conspicuous statement that
Service Ist was not associated with, or advertising on behalf of, the
consumer’s current lender, as required by § 1026.24(G){4).
For example, Service Ist sent about 1.8 milion advertisements that featured

the name of the consumer’s current lender on the top of the advertisement.
78,

79,

80.

Si.

APA PER PTR A ot Pan anya + ee me oe % ay aun ~
POOLE DIAM TS Pinaciirpaent 4 Bland GO/O4 eae Base OO Af AG
Bn SP tn PME ET Le fot eh AER rd : Natta A Bow NaF Bim Rage a DAP

In some cases, Service Ist also included the name of the consumer's current
lender on the envelope of the advertisement above the return mail address,
and occasionally in bold type or in all capital letters.

Some of the advertisements contained a disclosure in small type at the
bottom of the advertisement stating that the company was not affihated with
the recipient's current lender, but this disclosure was not “with equal

prominence” to the use of the current lender’s name

The advertisements also did not contain a clear and conspicuous disclosure
that Service Ist was not associated with the consumer’ s current lender.
VIOLATIORS OF REGULATION @
Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.PLR. § 1026.24(a)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(9), “[ilfan advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”

Service ist violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-30,
numerous Service Ist advertisements for credit stated specific credit terms
other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or offered by

the creditor.
B44.

85.

APN POA AM am ~ - 4 pues ON Ee o oe -
AOL BE RLAMAS Mie issycinmt 4 Mla MOA POOH Meare Be at
Sai tee ot WA? bad RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od : hat wie oA cA ot

Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. $3 1026.24(d)

Under 12 CLFLR. 8 1026.24(d)(1), ifan advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t]he terms of repayment, which reflect
the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, mcluding any
balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. 3 1026.24(a)(1), (2)Gy).

Service Ist violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs 64-68,
numerous Service ist mortgage advertisements set forth the period of
repayment or the amount of any payment, which are triggering terms under §
1026.24(d)(1)G) and Gu), but failed to state the repayment obligations over

the full term of the loan, pursuant to § 1026.24(d)(Qay).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.FLR. § 1026.24) 2G)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24) 2)G), if'a direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annualrate of mterest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) Each simple annual rate of imterest that will apply.
In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by
adding an index and margin shall be disclosed based on
a reasonably current index and margin;
A PR EE ON et ~ . A puss SOP TN Ee on a ~ t
AOL BE RLAMAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Dineen OO At AG
Bad ae MRP De WAS ba BA AEN Pa i ae wi PP eae » OSA MS Ae aoa Get PS

(3) The period of time during which each simple
annual rate of interest will apply; and

(C) The [APR] forthe loan. such rate is variable, the

[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
8§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

86. Service Ist violated § 1026.24(1)(2)Q) because, as described in Paragraphs

loan for which more than one interest rate would apply that stated a simple
annual rate of interest, but did not inclide one or more of the disclosures
required pursuant to $ 1026.24()(2)G)(A) through (C), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24) 2G).
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.PLR. § 1026.24(9)(3)@)

87. Under 12 C.F.R. $ 1026.24()(3)Q), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the amount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that willapply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
appheation of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(3) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first hen ona
dwelling, the fact that the payments do not mclude amounts
88.

89.

AMAA PPAR AMES ~ . oa gua y ON TN A Ee a ~
2OOHO BER AMS Miners t fF Mla MOA POOH Bae OR
Cae IT LPR POPU MAAS Pad ROA PIAS EL gd i = we ‘

for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the
actual payment obligation will be greater.

Service Ist violated § 1026.24(1)(3)G) because, as described in Paragraphs
67-68, numerous Service Ist direct-mail mortgage advertisements stated the
amount of a payment but did not include one or more of the disclosures
required pursuant to § 1026.24(0)(3)G)(A) through (C), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in 8 1026.24()(3)Gn.
Misleading Cost Comparisons, 12 C.FUR. § 1026.24) (2)

Under 12 C.F_R. § 1026.240)(2), mortgage advertisements may not:

Maklie| any comparison... between actual or hypothetical
credit payments or rates and any payment or simple annual
rate that will be available under the advertised product for a
period less than the full term of the loan, unless:

G) In general. The advertisement includes a clear and
conspicuous comparison to the information required to
be disclosed under § 1026.24()(2) and (3); and

Gi) Application to variable-rate transactions. If the
advertisement is for a variable-rate transaction, and the
advertised payment or simple annual rate is based on
the index and margin that will be used to make
subsequent rate or payment adjustments over the term
of the loan, the advertisement includes an equally
prominent statement in close proximity to the payment
or rate that the payment or rate is subject to adjustment
and the time period when the first adjustment will
Occur.
90.

91,

NAAM MPS AM AS x LA puny ON A Ie o ~ ~
AOL BE RLAMAS Miners t fF Mla MOA POOH Bian BA AP AS
CMP LS POPU AS bd LAGER od Pls VCE PP PU CARING ao a

Service Ist violated § 1026.24()(2) because, as described in Paragraphs 72~—
75, Service Ist sent numerous mortgage advertisements that contained a
comparison between actual or hypothetical payments or rates and a payment
or simple annual rate that would be available under the advertised loan fora
period less than the full term of the loan and did not comply with the

requirements of § 1026.240)(2)G) and Gy).

Misleading Use of the Current Lender’s Name, 12 C.PUR. § 1026.24((4)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24G)(4), mortgage advertisements may not:
Usfel the name of the consumer’s current lender m an
advertisement that is not sent by or on behalf of the

consumer ’s current lender, unless the advertisement:

(i) Discloses with equal prominence the name of the
person or creditor making the advertisement; and

(i) Includes a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement is not associated

with, or actme on behalf of, the consumer’s current
lender.

Service ist violated § 1026.24()(4) because, as described in Paragraphs 76—
SO, numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements, which were not sent by
or on behalf of the consumer’s current lender, used the name of the
consumer’ s current lender and did not (1) disclose with equal prominence
the name of the person or creditor making the advertisement, as required by

§ 1026.240)(4)(); or (2) include a clear and conspicuous statement that the
93.

04,

A PAM Rr AMS PN en weed + ee ave rare ~ Py AT os
POORER RLOOGITS Document 4 Fuad OO/07/2020 Pande 25 of 55
Sa teed wi bot BA AEN Pa : Sarat A Bae A oa X = Nee Beat

person making the advertisement was not associated with, or acting on

behalf of, the consumer's current lender, as required by § 1026.24G)(4)Up.

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP ROLE CREGULATION N)

Misrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.F. § 1014.3(b)

Under 12 CLPLR. 8 1014.30), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[tihe annual
percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”
applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. 8 1014.3, sucha
misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material,
Service Ist violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-30
and 81-82, Service Ist sent numerous mortgage advertisements that
contained misrepresentations about the APR applicable to a mortgage credit

product.
Misleading Comparisons, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(h)

Under 12 CLELR. § 1014.3¢h), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any muisrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, including:

Any comparison between:
6,

97,

CN PAE ma ~~ a ot mT A Ee ~~ aA Lees
2OOHO BER AMS Miners t fF Clan Oiad PaAen Maree BR Af RG
ee TL POU AA Pd ROA PIAS EL gd i = wie é ae .

(1) Any rate or payment that will be available for a
period less than the full length of the mortgage credit
product; and

(2) Any actual or hypothetical rate or payment.

Under 12 CLF_LR. 8 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

service Ist violated § 1014.3(h) because, as described im Paragraphs 33-35,
numerous Service ist mortgage advertisements contained a
misrepresentation about a mortgage credit product consisting of a misleading
comparison between: (1) a rate or payment that would be available for a
period less than the full length of the mortgage credit product; and (2) an

actual or hypothetical rate or payment.

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 CLELR. § 1014.3)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or imdirectly, expressly
or by mmphcation, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, mcluding but not limited to

musrepresentations that the consumer will receive a certain amount of cash
98.

99,

100,

AYA AM PES APR A PN ge ee eeu: ae me oy ~ en eee pe se
POP O-BCEP.OOTS Pocument 7 Fuad OOf/Od (e080 Bans Sf SG
Bn SP tn PME ET Le fot eh AER rd : Natta A Bow NaF Bim Aho s. Xe PE

3 7
a

or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Service Ist violated § 1014.34) because, as described in Paragraphs 46-48,
numerous Service ist mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available to the consumer in
connection with the mortgage credit product, including misrepresentations
that the consumer would receive a certain amount of cash as part of a

mortgage credit transaction.

Misrepresentations About Skipping Payments, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3Ck), #1s a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or mdirectly, expressly
or by imphcation, in any commercial communication, about “[t}he existence,
number, amount, or timing of any minimum or required payments, including
but not muted to misrepresentations about any payments or that no
payments are required in a reverse mortgage or other mortgage credit
product.” Under 12 C.FLR. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Service Ist violated § 1014.3(k) because, as described in Paragraphs 51-54,

Service Ist sent numerous mortgage advertisements that contained
PA PRE OR »~ . 8 pug ON TN Be e ~
AOL BE RLAMAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Banca OR Af AG
Bad ae MRP De WAS ba BA AEN Pa PPA Ae Gis Oa AF SASS ake Geb GPa

musrepresentations about the payments that would be required in connection
with the advertised mortgage credit product.

Misrepresentations About Government Affiiation, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.30)

101. Under 12 C.PLR. § 1014.30), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about:

the association of the mortgage credit product or any provider
of such product with any other person or program, including

but not hmited to misrepresentations that:

(1} The provider is, or is affiliated with, any
governmental entity or other organization; or

(2) The product is or relates to a government benefit, or
is endorsed, sponsored by, or affihated with any
government or other program, including but not lnited
to through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that
resemble those of such entity, organization, or
program.

Under 12 CLELR. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

102. Service Ist violated § 1014.3(n) because, as described in Paragraphs 38 and
40-43, Service Ist mailed numerous direct-mail mortgage advertisements
that contained misrepresentations that the provider of the advertised

mortgage credit product was affiliated with the government.
ARAN RAS AMA ~ 4 ot mT A Ee o~ ~e —
AOL BE RLAMAS Mie issycinmt 4 Mla MOA POOH eae GO At &
CMP LS POPU AS bd LAAN PoHMAS Vea < SAIN :

Misrepresentations About Source of Advertisements, 12 C.FUR. § 1014.3(0)

103.

104,

105,

106.

107,

Under 12 CLF_LR. 8 1014. 3(0), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, about the source of any commercial communication.
Under 12 CLF_LR. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.
service Ist violated § 1014.3(0) because, as described in Paragraphs 38 and
40-43, numerous Service Ist mortgage advertisements contamed
musrepresentations that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit
product was the United States government.

VIOLATIONS OF THE CRPA
Under the CFPA, itis unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-fmancial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. $$ 553 1(a), S536(a} 1B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission thatis hkely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances,
Information that is hkely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers,
109,

110.

Lil.

ARAN SAPS AmMaAS PA ee ~ ne mer es aA ER
SOCORRO ELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/O7 feoe0 Pane SO of 56
Band tn at RP EE tat AE at te AEN Ed : Newt A Bow ab Bow < Ae ow Xe PE

Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms

in numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 23-30 and 46-48, Service
ist’s mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
specttic credit terms were available or would be arranged or offered by the
creditor, mcluding representations about (1) interest rate and APR
combinations that were not available, and (2) the cash a consumer would
receive upon closing through a specific “escrow refund” amount, when in
fact those specific credit terms were not available or were not terms that
Service Ist was actually prepared to arrange or offer.

Service Ist’s misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised
credit terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers
acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Service Ist’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Service Ist engaged m deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CEPA, 12 U.S.C. $8 5531 (a), $536(a)(1)B).
113.

114,

115,

116.

Li,

ARAM PAE AMEN ~ a oe IN EA ~ an «
AOL BE RLAMAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Meare St ant
Sew ke bg WA? bad BPA EAE od : At wht < £ a

Deceptive Representations About Government AMiliation

in numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 38 and 40-435, Service
ist’s mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
Service Ist was atfihated with the United States government.

In fact, Service Ist was not affihated with the government.

Service Ist’s misrepresentations about its government affihation were likely
to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Service Ist’s misrepresentations about its government altfihation were
material because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of
consumers.

Therefore, Service lst engaged im deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. 8§ S53 1(a), 5536(a}C CB).

Deceptive Representations About the
Skipping Loan Payments

In numerous mstances, as described in Paragraphs 51-54, Service Ist
represented that a consumer can “[s]kip two payments” or “miss” two
payments by refinancing with the company.

But consumers had the option of “skippmg” or “missing” two payments only
i specific timing requirements were met, which Service Ist did not disclose

in its advertisements. Service lst would then add the purported “skipped” or
ARAN NAPS AmMaAS PA ee ~ mo me . x
POOLE DIAM TS Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Mare +N
Sade UP Ed we AS Pot BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yet A On AF BAN 3 Ae ada. &. al Ss

“missed” payments to the principal balance of the mortgage, which it also
failed to disclose in its advertisements.

119. Service ist’s misrepresentations about skipping two payments were likely to
mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances,

iZ0. Service Ist’s misrepresentations about skipping two payments were material
because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of consumers,

121. Therefore, Service Ist engaged im deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CEPA, 12 U.S.C. $8 5531 (a), $536(a)(1)B).

Deceptive Representations About the
‘Tume-Limited Availability ofthe VA Loan Program

122, In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 57 and 58, Service Ist’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that the
VA loan program that Service ist generated its loans under would be ending
SOON.

123. In fact, there was no deadline for applying for a VA-guaranteed loan, and the
VA-suaranteed loan program had no end date.

124, Service ist’s misrepresentations about the time-limited availability of the
VA loan program was likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under

the circumstances.
125,

127,

129,

APO PORE RS Am ~ . oa peg ONIN A EP — —— cos
AOL BE RLAMAS Miners t fF Clan Oiad PaAen Rane RO af RG
Bea te Ee nt BASLE EER PER Od POPS ASG bP ole oA MS Ae ade Gel re

Service Ist’s misrepresentations about the time-limited availability of the
VA loan program were material because they were likely to mfluence the
conduct or decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Service Ist engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. 8§ 553 1a), 5536(a)C CB).

Violations ofthe CHPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Zand the MAP Rule

Under the CFP A, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules
thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. 88 5536Q@)C1 WA), 548104.
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.

Service Ist’s violations of Regulation 7 and the MAP Rule, described in

ULS.C, § 5536(a)C1 (A).
CONDUCT PROVISIONS
Vi.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

PT ES ORDERED, under $§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 8§

2563, 53565, that:
130.

SOO .BCEBRLOOIA Me &

£3

Acs eek 4 PLA AD SAE FOAM Miaewes BRA « &
? a at PE 5 2 fee eee cee OF BH TENN PTs foes BY TREN SS Oe EN Ses
GVEA PPA Pt LOIRE Eh od POPES WSR PP Ur PAGS 2S OF OD

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

midirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.PLR. § 1026.24, and

m connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale

of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assistmg others in misrepresenting, expressly or
by implication:

1. Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not muted to the following: the total
costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or
central characteristics;

2. The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any
consumer or the benefits of refinancimg:

3, The amount of any potential escrow refund;

4. That the consumer can “miss” or “skip” payments; or

5, The existence of any deadime, expiration date, or timeframe for

a consumer to obtain or exercise his or her VA benefits;

b. [Including or using any words, phrases, images, or design

characteristics that falsely state or imply that:
AMON SN ~ ON TEN A EP ~*~ mo ps
POO ORE BLO : sant 4 Pilad GO/O7 feoe0 Rane 3S of SB
en ad athe Ka RP YS Me baal A oh A : Raed AS GE AY CAF EAN POSALNS wear Le re

L, The source of the advertisement is the government or the
consumer's current lender or is affiliated with the government
or the consumer’s current lender; or

2, The advertisement is anything other than an advertisement for a
mortgage;

Incliding or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or

design characteristics:

1. “Benefit announcement,”

bs

“Bheibilty advisory,”

3. “Bligibility notice;”

4,  “Bligibility status,”

5. “Expiration notice,”

6. “Pending authorization;”

7. “VA loan department:”

5. “VA loan representative,”

9. “VA loan specialist,”

10. “VA program customer support,”
ll. “VA specialist,”

12. “Waiting period;”
I

1,

d.

. 3 8 ee
ee UR hs ENT Bde
oN cae

AMAA MAAR AMAS ~ . 4 mo EN EA ~
2OOHO BER AMS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Dees
- a y a; ta erak a4

he “ 4 AG ,

eae SI
vile aot ert SUE TE 3 2 eye
ee TL POU AA Pd ROA PIAS EL gd J WA

13. ThelRS signature year style (wo digits in white or outhned
text and the other two digits in black text);
i4. ‘The format of an URS form, including Form W-2, ora

substantially similar format; or

Prana
CFI

Any VA or United States Department of Defense (DOD) logo,
or alogo, emblem, or other representation that resembles—or
that a consumer could reasonably interpret as—a VA or DOD
logo; and

Stating the name of the consumer’s current or prior lender, unless the
current or prior lender is Service Ist, or unless stating the name of the

current or prior lender is otherwise required by law.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or

offermeg for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the folowmg

affirmative actions:

Respondent must have prior substantiation for ail express and imphed
claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.
If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the
OC. BCERLONIS De

Sa tet

. A
ce. ee

wh id 5 pees re cay oy

3 WAS ba BA AEN Pa

amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minumum:

6.

The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

The term of the loan m either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

The amount of each payment that wil apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
apphcation of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;
The period during which each payment will apply;

The fact that the payments do not mclide amounts for taxes and
msurance premiums, wt applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and
The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate

may be increased after consummation, that fact.

In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,

Respondent must:
ARAN RAPER AMA PY ce et enh AEA Fae mh. A EER
SOCORRO ELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/O7 feoe0 Rane BR of SH
SNP eI Pe tat AE at BA AEN Pa PeGekd Ae Bow ab Bow SOCAL Ne WR a

State, Clearly and Promimently, that the product is an
“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” betore the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

For each simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based
on an index and margm, base the rate on an index value in
effect on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior,
and disclose the index and margin; and

State that more information about adjustable rate mortgages 1s

available at https://files.consumertinance. gow/f/201401_ cipb_

Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be

made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under

Regulation 7, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, must be:

iw

In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments
iriggering the required disclosures;

Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

Otherwise comphant with Regulation #4, as applicable.
RAR PR AR PA ‘ oo ON TN Be om ae os
SOLACE AIS Pinar inant 4 Plead O/O7/e088 Pane SOQ of 56
Bad ae MRP De WAS ba BASE EAGER : eke AGE CAF EAN PO CALNS wear Leb we

Vil.
Advertising Review

[Tis FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent, whether actmg directly or indirectly, must take the followmg

affirmative actions:

ak. Respondent’s Advertismg Comphance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it 1s
complhant with TILA, Regulation #4, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all clanms
made in the advertisement, expressly or by imphcation, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

b. Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is
mailed to consumers, the Advertismg Compliance Official must
review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any
envelope, mailer, and enclosures——to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,

expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
AOA PAE AMA ~ a ot mT A Ee o~ - a
2OOHO BER AMS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Maem 2 at &
ee TL POU AA Pd ROA PIAS EL gd i = wie oak

substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is dissemmated. This requirement
apples whether the set is mailed as a single set or in multiple sets or
subsets. Italso apphes whether the set is mailed out at a simgle time or
over a period.

The Advertisng Comphance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must mclude a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
im the advertisement, expressly or by implication. [If the advertisement
mcludes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availabilty of the advertised rate(s). Uf the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all
inputs assumed when calculating that number. if the advertisement
states an anaount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
mclide any materials used to determine the availability of that

amount.
| :

Loo

A

4,

NOAM RPI AMA an ua; ~~ ON POP ae oe ae ee
POOLE DIAM TS Pinaciirpaent 4 Pia Old PeAan Dawe yf SP RG
Bn SP tn PME ET Le fot eh AER rd : Natta A Bow NaF Bim SAG Ne Xe PE

d. The Advertismg Comphance Official and any employees with
responsibihties related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate m
annual traming on TULA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, andthe CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VIEL

Compliance Plan

ITS PURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director for review and determmation of non-objection a

comprehensive comphance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s

mortgage advertismg comphes with all apphcable Federal consumer

financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Complhance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent
Order; and

b. Spectfic timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination

of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. IT
136.

ARAN RAPER AMA Pe ~ mA mA ~. ’ Se
SOCORRO ELOOTS Pocument 7 Fidad GOs feoeo Pana 2? of SG
hn ad tan PR A EE Le a Et BHAA Ed : tek Ae Oa AF & Ae Sra Ql PS

the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Comphance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Complhance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 15 days.
After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Comphance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outhned m the Comphance Plan.

MONETARY PROVISIONS

TX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

(TIS POURTHER ORDERED that:
Under § LO55(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $ 5565(), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking

ce

mto account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c\3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $230,000 to the Bureau.
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civ money

penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in

compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
138,

140.

ARAM SAP AMA PA ee ~ mo mem en oe -
POOLE DIAM TS Pinaciirpaent 4 Bland GO/O4 eae Range 2h fh
Bn SP tn PME ET Le fot eh AER rd : Natta A Bow NaF Bim SAG Ne wor SE

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497).

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under

this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b, Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, inchiding but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil money
penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Crvil Penalty Fund. Ifthe courtin any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory

monetary remedies imposed agamst Respondent based on the civil money
14],

143,

AR AR RAPA AMAN PA ee ~ mo mem en ~. s am
POOLE DIAM TS Pinaciirpaent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Mana dd te
Soe Ue we AS Pot BaP ASP ETA eR OT 5 ek AS oa AF Baw a Le roy 4k we

penalty paid m this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a tinal order granting such offset or reduction, notily the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional crvil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

the

Additional Monetary Provisions

TP is FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent's obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. 8 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.
Under 31 U.S.C. $7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must

furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
144.

AMAR SAP AMAA ry, eh ~ AI A ER a mx
SOW CE RLANTS Pine iyyaaint 4 Bland GO/O4 eae Base fy
Bn SP tn PME ET Le fot eh AER rd : Nee tet AGA Bow NaF Bim SAG Ne wort

used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
m a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement im writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paxl
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
ME.
Reporting Requirements

IT is FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
complhance obligations arising under this Consent Order, mcluding but not
hited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsiciary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filmg of any bankruptcy or msolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or

address, Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
146.

147,

ARAA SAR AMAS PA ee ce ~ me meee ~ ae x
MOORE DLAYTS Paciiyent 4 Bland GO/O4 eae Maae 6 ¢ fy
MPR TELS Le PG Let A bt BAA EAB Ea : tee Ae ba AF aS CANS SPU GP Pe

before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the

development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as pomts of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b, Identify all busmesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses: and

C, Describe the activities of each such busmess, mcluding the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 146 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to

the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report
ARAN PARA AMSA ~*~ a ot mT A Ee o~ tay es
2OOHO BER AMS Miners t fF Mla MOA POOH Dineen AP At AG
Sai tee ot WA? bad RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od Pits Wee Bos AF aS SANS ST kas we

(Comphance Report) that has been approved by Respondent's executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

ak. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form im which
Respondent has comphed with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;

b, Describes in detail the manner and formim which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;

c. Describes in detail any instances m which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Complhance Plan, with an
explanation of why any such instances occurred: and

d. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XI, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

ALL,
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT iS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Entorcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,

sworn under penalty of perjury.
150,

heed
Fi

ARAN AAPA ANAS PA oo ee ~~ me aA a ms
SPOOL BCERLANRAS Praciirnant 4 Cian ay aye Mare 2k 5m
Bn SP tn PME ET Let A bt BAAS PEASE Ed : tee Ae bow AF Bn & SAG Ne Srhe Leb wie

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members Gf any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resultmg from any change in structure
referred to in Section AI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who wil have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities,
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. 8 7001 ef seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was

delivered through that date under Paragraphs [50-151 and acopy of all
NA AA RAR Am aS PV, ee pee oT rn my ae i
SOO RCE RBLOAOTS Pocument 7 Fuad OO/O7 (2020 Page 49 of 55
Sa teed wi bot BA AEN Pa POPS Age Bow Sab Bow SP = NS Tr Gt ee

signed and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order
under Paragraph 152.
MUL.

Recordkeeping
TTS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12 C.PLR.
§ 1014.5, mcluding but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four
months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated the applicable
commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit

product, the following evidence of comphance with the MAP Rule:

a. Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well
as sales scripts, traming materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

b. Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, mcluding but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product avatlable to

consumers: and
155,

156.

157,

A PAM Rr AMS PN as a pe me ay ~ os ~
SPOOL BCERLANRAS Pinaciirpaent 4 Pia Old PeAan Base AO Af RG
Soe Ue we bat BaP AS SPEER Pkg 3 Yet A On AF BAN she ee Not ks

Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or dissemimated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, mcluding but not muted to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

ro consumers.

Respondent must retain its mauling lists for direct-mail mortgage

advertisements dissemmaited within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least

“ years after disseraination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 132(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retam the following

busimess records:

ad.

All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full comphance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,

mcliding any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
158,

160,

ARAN RARE AMMAN Py, ok ~ mn mA . ~A
MOORE DLAYTS Pinaciirpaent 4 Pia Old PeAan Rane & Aft Re
Bn SP tn PME ET Le fot eh AER rd : Natta A Bo SF Bon she Xe DAG

behalf; and
c. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received

directly or mdirectiy, such as through a third party), and any responses

to those complaimts or requests.
Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 157 for at
least S years after creation of the record.
Respondent must make the documents identified m Paragraphs 154-157
available to the Bureau upon the Bureau's request.

KEY.
Notices

[Tis PURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relatmg to this Consent Order m writing, with the subject lime, “/n re Service
ist Mortgage, Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP-0013,” and send them by overnight
courier or first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by
emai to Enforcement_Comphance @cfpb. gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C, 20552
16

162,

163,

1,

PAA PE A PA ee, ound: ~~ me me ~ es ue ms
POOLE DIAM TS Paciiyent 4 Pian OG/A 4d feaen MS aryen +N
Batt UPd wi bot BA AEN Pa : Newt A Bow ab Bow SAG Ne aia GIT GIL

Compliance Monitoring
PP is FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Comphance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ comphance with those
requirements; or produce non-privueged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retaims counselrelated to these
communications,
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’ s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affihated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.
166,

167,

NA AA RAR Am aS PV, um ~~ ef ay ~ Pes ~
MOORE DLAYTS Pinaciirpaent 4 Cuan On aye Rane AR af RS
hn ad tan PR A EE We AS bot BA AEN Pa : et AS Oa AF she wt Gb PL

Process.

aE,

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

PIS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reportmg
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

VIEL.

Administrative Provisions

ITP Ts FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action agamst Respondent, except as

described in Paragraph 168. Purther, forthe avoulance of doubt, the
168,

169.

170.

BOA BCE BLAIS Rarcinant 4
MPR TELS Le PG WAS ba BAAR kd

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential habuity
for law violations thatthe Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affihates, mcluding, without hmitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the contmuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under $§ 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 155-156 and 158-159 of this Consent

Order will termmate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired.
173.

174,

BOA BCE BLAIS Rarcinant 4
MPR TELS Le PG WAS ba BAAR kd

All other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from
the Effective Date. The Consent Order will remam effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writmg by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may unpose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(¢) of the CPPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personaljurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete

agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
 

2020-BCFP-0013 Document1 Filed 09/01/2020 Page 56 of 56

representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

175. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this Di ay of August, 2020.

 
  

(AHS

Kathleen L. Kraninger

Director

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
