Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20549,
Plaintiff,

Vv. : COMPLAINT
SYNCOR INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
6464 Canoga Avenue
Woodland Hills, CA 91367,

Defendant.

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission alleges that:
JURISDICTION

1. This Court has jurisdiction pursuant to Sections 21(d)(3) and 27 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), 15 U.S.C. §§
78u(d)(3) and 78aa. In connection with the conduct described herein,
the defendant made use of the mails and/or the means or
instrumentalities of interstate commerce.

DEFENDANT

2. Defendant Syncor International Corporation ("Syncor") is a Delaware
corporation with its headquarters in Woodland Hills, California. Syncor is
a provider of radiopharmaceutical products and services both in the
United States and, through various direct and indirect subsidiaries, in
18 foreign countries. Syncor's common stock is registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is listed
on the NASDAQ National Market.

FACTS

3. From at least the mid-1980s through at least September 2002, several
of Syncor's foreign subsidiaries made at least $600,000 in illicit
payments to doctors employed by hospitals controlled by foreign
authorities. As described below, these illicit payments were made with
the purpose and effect of influencing the doctors' decisions so that
Syncor could obtain or retain business with them and the hospitals that
employed them. Moreover, the payments were made with the
knowledge and approval of senior officers of the relevant Syncor
subsidiaries, and in some cases with the knowledge and approval of
Syncor's founder and chairman of the board.

4. By making these payments through its subsidiaries, Syncor violated the
anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as
amended (the "FCPA"). Moreover, by improperly recording these
payments - and similar payments made to foreign persons not affiliated
with government-owned facilities --- Syncor violated the books-and-
records provisions of the FCPA. Finally, by failing to devise or maintain
an effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect these
violations of the FCPA, Syncor violated the internal accounting controls
provisions of the FCPA.

A. Taiwan

5. Syncor has been doing business in Taiwan since 1985 through a
subsidiary called Syncor Taiwan, Inc. Syncor Taiwan was and still is
Syncor's largest overseas operation in terms of revenue. Among other
things, Syncor Taiwan sells radiopharmaceutical products to both
private and public hospitals in Taiwan, and owns and operates medical
imaging centers in that country. Throughout the relevant period, the
financial results of Syncor Taiwan were a component of the
consolidated financial statements included in Syncor's filings with the
Commission.

6. Throughout the time it has been in business, Syncor Taiwan has paid
improper commissions to doctors who controlled the purchasing
decisions for the nuclear medicine departments of certain hospitals,
10.

including some hospitals owned by Taiwan authorities, for the purpose
of obtaining or retaining business with those hospitals. These improper
commissions (typically between 10% and 20% of sales) totaled at least
$400,000 from the inception of Syncor Taiwan through September
2002.

During this period, the payment of these commissions was known to
and approved by Syncor's founder and chairman, among others at both
Syncor and Syncor Taiwan. In most cases, the commissions were paid in
cash and hand-delivered to doctors by the brother of Syncor's
chairman, who was the general manager of Syncor Taiwan during most
of the relevant period until he was promoted in 1998 to manage all of
Syncor's Asian operations.

These commissions - along with similar commissions Syncor Taiwan
paid to doctors at private hospitals in Taiwan - were improperly
recorded as promotional and advertising expenses in the books and
records of Syncor Taiwan.

Beginning in 1998, Syncor Taiwan also paid improper fees to certain
doctors at hospitals owned by Taiwan authorities for referrals of
patients to medical imaging centers owned and operated by Syncor
Taiwan. These referral fees typically were based on a percentage
(between 3% and 5%) of the service fees payable to each medical
imaging center from the patients referred, and typically took the form
of a cash payment that was hand-delivered to the referring doctor by a
bookkeeper at the center after funds had been wire-transferred to the
center for that purpose.

During the relevant period, these improper referral fees to doctors at
hospitals owned by Taiwan authorities totaled at least $113,000. The
payment of these referral fees was known to and approved by Syncor's
founder and chairman of the board, among others at both Syncor and
Syncor Taiwan.

11. Like the commissions described above, these referral fees - along with
similar referral fees paid to doctors at private hospitals in Taiwan - were
improperly recorded as promotional and advertising expenses in the
books and records of Syncor Taiwan.

B. Mexico
12. Syncor has been doing business in Mexico since 1995 through a

13.

14.

15.

16.

subsidiary called Syncor de Mexico. In 1998, Syncor de Mexico acquired
another Mexican radiopharmaceutical company whose customers were
primarily public hospitals, and the two companies formally merged
during 2001. During the relevant period, the principal business of
Syncor de Mexico was the sale of radiopharmaceutical products and
related medical equipment, and its financial results were a component
of the consolidated financial statements included in Syncor's filings with
the Commission.

During 2001 and 2002, Syncor de Mexico and its representatives made
approximately $23,000 in improper monetary payments to at least four
doctors at government-owned hospitals in Mexico, all for the purpose of
obtaining or retaining business with those doctors and the hospitals
that employed them. These payments took several different forms,
including a personal loan to one doctor that was never repaid, and
purported reimbursements of personal expenses claimed by several of
the doctors.

In at least two cases, moreover, Syncor de Mexico entered into "over-
invoicing" arrangements with doctors. Pursuant to these arrangements,
Syncor de Mexico would inflate an invoice and bill the doctor's hospital
for a more expensive product than Syncor actually delivered. After the
hospital paid the amount reflected on the inflated invoice, Syncor de
Mexico would pay to the doctor the difference between the actual price
and the inflated price, less Syncor de Mexico's tax liability on the sale.

All of the foregoing types of payments were known to and approved by
the general manager and others at Syncor de Mexico. Many of the
payments were hand-delivered to the doctors by Syncor de Mexico sale
representatives after the funds were wired to the sales representatives'
bank accounts. Some of the payments were improperly recorded as
business expenses in the books and records of Syncor de Mexico.

In addition to the above-described payments, Syncor de Mexico had a
general practice of providing "support" - locally referred to as "apoyo" -
to doctors with whom it did business, including many employed at
government-owned hospitals. These support payments, generally
between 1.5% and 3% of sales, mostly came in the form of
sponsorships for the doctors' attendance at educational seminars,
including payments for registration fees, travel, lodging, and meals.
They also included gifts of computer equipment, software, office
17.

furniture, and medical supplies to doctors and their hospitals;
sponsorships of social functions and fundraisers at the hospitals; funds
provided to cover the cost of temporary employees at the hospitals;
and payments made for outside testing when a particular hospital's
laboratory equipment was not functioning properly.

During the years 2000 through 2002, Syncor de Mexico made a total of
at least $200,000 in support payments, which were arbitrarily
distributed among several of Syncor de Mexico's business expense
accounts in a manner designed to minimize their detection and
disallowance by Mexican tax authorities. This improper characterization
of the payments caused inaccuracies in the books and records of
Syncor de Mexico.

C. Belgium, Luxembourg, and France

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24,

Syncor has been doing business in Belgium, Luxembourg, and France
since September 2001 through four subsidiaries collectively operated as
the Medcon Group. The primary business of the Medcon Group is the
sale and export of radiological film to hospitals, doctors, and
distributors, although it also sells a limited quantity of medical
equipment. Customers of the Medcon Group include both government-
owned and private hospitals. During the relevant period, the financial
results of the Medcon Group were a component of the consolidated
financial statements included in Syncor's filings with the Commission.

During 2001 and 2002, the Medcon Group made several different types
of illicit payments to doctors employed by hospitals owned by foreign
governments for the purpose of retaining business with these doctors
and their hospitals. First, the Medcon Group gave some doctors
generous gifts worth more than $750 each in the form of money
directly transferred to doctors' bank accounts, computers, digital
cameras, expensive wines, wristwatches, and leisure travel. In addition,
pursuant to agreements with certain doctors, the Medcon Group
occasionally sent inflated or fictitious invoices to medical practices and
then rebated to the doctors approximately 80 % of the practices'
payments, with the funds then being used to finance personal travel
and other gifts for the doctors.

During 2001 and 2002, such illicit payments and gifts to doctors at
government-owned hospitals have totaled at least $45,000, and were
known to and approved by the two principal executives of Medcon who
manage the affairs of the business for Syncor.

The Medcon Group also improperly recorded many of these payments
and gifts in its books and records. It likewise improperly recorded other
gifts it gave, and commissions it paid, to various private parties to
obtain competitive advantages, including: (i) a gift of a laptop computer
given to an employee of one of its major suppliers to induce that
supplier to overbid on a Belgian government contract that was
consequently awarded to the Medcon Group; (ii) commissions of 5% to
10% paid to distributors of the Medcon Group's products in France,
Germany, and Italy; (iii) a payment of approximately $33,000 toa
distributor in Greece to induce him not to compete with the Medcon
Group in Belgium and Luxembourg; (iv) commissions paid to employees
of the Medcon Group's suppliers to preserve goodwill and to receive
preferential access to products; and (v) commissions of approximately
80% paid to the principal of one distributor of the Medcon Group's
products to induce him to purchase nearly-expired x-ray film that would
otherwise have to be written off.

The Medcon Group inaccurately recorded many of the above-described
gifts and payments as capital or business expenses, apparently for the
purpose of minimizing the risk of detection and disallowance by tax
authorities. Moreover, the Medcon Group improperly recorded many of
these payments and gifts in the books and records of Syncor's
Luxembourg subsidiary rather than those of its Belgium subsidiary,
where they properly belonged, apparently to take advantage of more
favorable tax treatment and more relaxed oversight in Luxembourg.

FIRST CLAIM
[violations of Exchange Act Section 30A]

Paragraphs 1 through 22 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

As described above, Syncor, through certain of its foreign subsidiaries,
corruptly paid money and gifts to doctors at hospitals owned by foreign
authorities for the purposes of influencing their official decisions and
inducing them to use their influence with the hospitals to assist Syncor
in obtaining or retaining business. Throughout the relevant period, the
doctors at these hospitals were foreign officials within the meaning of
the FCPA, and the hospitals were instrumentalities of foreign
governments within the meaning of the FCPA.
25,

26.

27.

28.

29,

30.

31.

By reason of the foregoing, Syncor violated the anti-bribery provisions
of the FCPA, as codified at Exchange Act Section 30A [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-
1].

SECOND CLAIM
[violations of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A)]

Paragraphs 1 through 25 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

As described above, Syncor, through its subsidiaries, failed to make and
keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its
assets.

By reason of the foregoing, Syncor violated the books-and-records
provisions of the FCPA, as codified at Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A)
[15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

THIRD CLAIM
[violations of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B)]

Paragraphs 1 through 28 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

As described above, with respect to improper payments to foreign
officials and others, Syncor and certain of its foreign subsidiaries failed
to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions were
executed in accordance with management's general or specific
authorization; and (ii) transactions were recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and to maintain accountability for its assets.

By reason of the foregoing, Syncor violated the internal accounting
controls provisions of the FCPA, as codified at Exchange Act Section
13(b)(2)(B) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)1.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court enter a Final
Judgment ordering defendant Syncor to pay a civil penalty pursuant to
Exchange Act Sections 21(d)(3) and 32(c) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d)(3) and

78ff(c)], and granting such other relief as the Court deems appropriate.

Respectfully submitted,

 

Paul R. Berger

Russell G. Ryan (DC Bar No. 414472)
Nina B. Finston

Jason P. Lee

Stephen G.Yoder

Attorneys for Plaintiff
Securities and Exchange Commission
450 Fifth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20549-0806
(202) 942-4660 (Ryan)
(202) 942-9630 (Ryan fax)
Dated: December 10, 2002

http://www.sec.gov/litigation/complaints/comp!1 7887.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 12/11/2002
