Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Former CEO of Innospec for Role in Bribery
Scheme

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2011-21

Washington, D.C., Jan. 24, 2011 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today charged a former chief executive officer at Innospec, Inc., with violating
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by approving bribes to government
officials to obtain and retain business.

The SEC alleges that Paul W. Jennings learned of the company's longstanding
practice of paying bribes to win orders for sales of tetraethyl lead (TEL) in
mid- to late 2004 while serving as the CFO. After becoming CEO in 2005,
Jennings and others in Innospec's management approved bribery payments to
officials at the Iraqi Ministry of Oil (MoO) in order to sell the fuel additive to
lraq refineries. Innospec used its third-party agent in Iraq to funnel payments
to Iraqi officials.

 

Additional Materials
» SEC Complaint

 

Jennings agreed to settle the SEC's charges against him. The SEC previously
charged Innospec as well as its former TEL business director and its agent in
Iraq with FCPA violations.

"This is the third enforcement action against an individual responsible for the
widespread bribery that occurred at Innospec," said Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief
of the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit. "We will vigorously hold
accountable those individuals who approve such bribery and who sign false
SOX certifications and other documents to cover up the wrongdoing."

According to the SEC's complaint filed in U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia, Jennings played a key role in Innospec's bribery activities in Iraq
and Indonesia. Innospec, a manufacturer and distributor of fuel additives and
other specialty chemicals, was charged last year for making illicit payments of
approximately $6.3 million and promised an additional $2.8 million in illicit
payments to Iraqi ministries and government officials as well as Indonesian
government officials in exchange for contracts worth approximately $176
million.

The SEC alleges that Innospec made payments totaling more than $1.6 million
and promised an additional $884,480 to MoO officials. For example, in an
October 2005 e-mail copying Jennings, the agent said that Iraqi officials were
demanding a 2 percent kickback and that "[W]e are sharing most of our
profits with Iraqi officials. Otherwise, our business will stop and we will lose
the market. We have to change our strategy and do more compensation to
get the rewards." The kickback and later payments were paid by increasing
the agent's commission, which Jennings approved. The SEC's complaint also
alleges that Jennings was aware of the scheme to pay an official at the Trade
Bank of Iraq in exchange for a favorable exchange rate on letters of credit.
Another scheme involved a bribe to ensure the failure of a field test of a
competitor product. A confidential MoO report for the field trial test was
shared with Jennings. Bribes were offered to secure a 2008 Long Term
Purchase Agreement that would have caused approximately $850,000 to be
shared with Iraqi officials. The agreement, however, did not go forward due to
the investigation and ultimate discovery by U.S. regulators of widespread
bribery by Innospec.

According to the SEC's complaint, Innospec also paid bribes to Indonesian
government officials from at least 2000 to 2005 in order to win contracts
worth more than $48 million from state-owned oil and gas companies in
Indonesia. Jennings became aware of and approved payments beginning in
mid to late 2004. Various euphemisms to refer to the bribery were commonly
used in e-mails and in discussions with Jennings and others at Innospec,
including "the Indonesian Way," "the Lead Defense Fund," and "TEL
optimization." Bribery discussions were held on a flight in the U.S. and even
discussed at Jennings' performance review in 2005. In one bribery scheme
with Pertamina, an Indonesian state owned oil and gas company, Innospec
agreed, with approval by Jennings, to a "one off payment" of $300,000 to
their Indonesian Agent with the understanding that it would be passed on to
an Indonesian official.

The SEC's complaint also alleges that from 2004 to February 2009, Jennings
signed annual certifications that were provided to auditors where he falsely
stated that he had complied with Innospec's Code of Ethics incorporating the
Company's FCPA policy. Jennings also signed annual and quarterly personal
certifications pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in which he made
false certifications concerning the company's books and records and internal
controls.

Jennings has consented, without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations,
to the entry of a final judgment that permanently enjoins him from violating
Sections 30A and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules
13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and from aiding and abetting
Innospec's violations of Exchange Act Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and13(b)(2)
(B). Jennings will disgorge $116,092 plus prejudgment interest of $12,945,
and pay a penalty of $100,000 that takes into consideration Jennings's
cooperation in this matter.

Tracy L. Price and Denise Hansberry of the SEC Enforcement Division's FCPA
Unit conducted the investigation. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the
U.S. Department of Justice's Fraud Section, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, and the U.K.'s SFO in this matter. The SEC's investigation is
continuing.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Cheryl J. Scarboro
Chief, Foreign Corrupt Practices Unit, SEC's Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2011/2011-21.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 01/24/2011
