Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Alcatel-Lucent with FCPA Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2010-258

Company to Pay More Than $137 Million to Settle SEC and DOJ
Charges

Washington, D.C., Dec. 27, 2010 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today charged Paris-based telecommunications company Alcatel-Lucent, S.A.
with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by paying bribes to

foreign government officials to illicitly win business in Latin America and Asia.

 

Additional Materials

» Litigation Release No. 21795

» SEC Complaint
» French Translation

® Spanish Translation

 

The SEC alleges that Alcatel’s subsidiaries used consultants who performed
little or no legitimate work to funnel more than $8 million in bribes to
government officials in order to obtain or retain lucrative telecommunications
contracts and other contracts. Alcatel agreed to pay more than $45 million to
settle the SEC’s charges, and pay an additional $92 million to settle criminal
charges announced today by the U.S. Department of Justice.

“Alcatel and its subsidiaries failed to detect or investigate numerous red flags
suggesting their employees were directing sham consultants to provide gifts
and payments to foreign government officials to illegally win business,” said
Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement. “Alcatel’s
bribery scheme was the product of a lax corporate control environment at the
company.”

Glenn S. Gordon, Associate Director for Enforcement in the SEC’s Miami
Regional Office, added, “The serious sanctions Alcatel has agreed to,
including paying back all net profits made on the contracts Alcatel illegally
obtained, should serve as a reminder that we are committed to enforcing the
FCPA and a level playing field for companies seeking to obtain or retain
business in other countries.”

According to the SEC’s complaint filed in the Southern District of Florida,
Alcatel’s bribes went to government officials in Costa Rica, Honduras,
Malaysia, and Taiwan between December 2001 and June 2006. An Alcatel
subsidiary provided at least $14.5 million to consulting firms through sham
consulting agreements for use in the bribery scheme in Costa Rica. Various
high-level government officials in Costa Rica received at least $7 million of
the $14.5 million to ensure Alcatel obtained or retained three contracts to
provide telephone services in Costa Rica.

The SEC alleges that the same Alcatel subsidiary bribed officials in the
government of Honduras to obtain or retain five telecommunications
contracts. Another Alcatel subsidiary made bribery payments to Malaysian
government officials in order to procure a telecommunications contract. An
Alcatel subsidiary also made illegal payments to various officials in the
government of Taiwan to win a contract to supply railway axle counters to the
Taiwan Railway Administration.

According to the SEC’s complaint, all of the bribery payments were
undocumented or improperly recorded as consulting fees in the books of
Alcatel’s subsidiaries and then consolidated into Alcatel’s financial
statements. The leaders of several Alcatel subsidiaries and geographical
regions, including some who reported directly to Alcatel’s executive
committee, either knew or were severely reckless in not knowing about the
misconduct.

The SEC’s complaint charges that Alcatel violated Section 30A of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by making illicit payments to foreign
government officials, through its subsidiaries and agents, in order to obtain or
retain business. Alcatel violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by
failing to have adequate internal controls to detect and prevent the
payments. Alcatel violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by
improperly recording the payments in its books and records. Alcatel violated
Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act when its subsidiaries knowingly failed to
implement a system of internal controls and knowingly falsified their books
and records to camouflage bribes as consulting payments. Without admitting
or denying the SEC’s allegations, Alcatel has consented to a court order
permanently enjoining it from future violations of these statutory provisions;
ordering the company to pay $45.372 million in disgorgement of wrongfully
obtained profits, and ordering it to comply with certain undertakings including
an independent monitor for a three-year term. The settlement is subject to
court approval.

The SEC’s case was investigated by Ernesto Palacios and Thierry Olivier
Desmet of the Division of Enforcement’s FCPA Unit and by Teresa J. Verges
and Fernando Torres - all of the Miami Regional Office.

The SEC acknowledges and appreciates assistance from the U.S. Department
of Justice, Fraud Section; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Office of the
Attorney General in Costa Rica, the Fiscalia de Delitos Econémicos, Corrupcién
y Tributarios in Costa Rica; and the Service Central de Prévention de la
Corruption in France.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Glenn S. Gordon, Associate Director

Teresa J. Verges, Assistant Director

Thierry Olivier Desmet, Assistant Director, FCPA Unit
SEC Miami Regional Office

305-982-6300

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-258.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 12/27/2010
