2:13-cv-02279 #1 Pagei1of14 E-FILED

Friday, 20 December, 2013 10:45:58 AM
Clerk, U.S. District Court, ILCD

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
CENTRAL DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS
Urbana Division

)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE )
COMMISSION, )
Plaintiff, )
Vv. ) Case No. 2:13-cv-2279
)
ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND ) Equitable Relief is Sought
COMPANY, )
Defendant. )
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission’’) alleges the following

against Defendant Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (“ADM” or the “Company’’):

NATURE OF THE ACTION

1. This matter involves violations of the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by ADM. At certain times between
2002 and 2008, Alfred C. Toepfer, International G.m.b.H. (“ACTI Hamburg”) and its affiliate,
Alfred C. Toepfer, International (Ukraine) Ltd. (“ACTI Ukraine”) paid approximately $22
million to two third-party vendors so that they could pass on nearly all of that money as bribes to
Ukrainian government officials to obtain over $100 million in accumulated value added tax
(“VAT”) refunds. These payments were recorded by ACTI Hamburg and ACTI Ukraine in their
books and records as insurance premiums and other business expenses. ADM indirectly owns a
majority of ACTI Hamburg and ACTI Ukraine through its 80% interest in Alfred C. Toepfer
International B.V. (‘ACTT’), and in 2002, ADM began consolidating ACTI’s financial results

into its financial statements.
2. In order to disguise the purpose of these improper payments, ACTI Hamburg and
ACTI Ukraine made certain payments for export-related services and insurance premiums to
third parties, but, in fact, nearly all of these payments were intended to be passed on through
these third parties as bribes to Ukrainian government officials in exchange for obtaining VAT
refunds for and on behalf of ACTI Ukraine.

3. ACTI’s conduct went unchecked by ADM, and ACTI continued to make these
improper payments for several years. ADM’s anti-bribery compliance controls in existence at
the time were insufficient in that they did not deter and detect these payments. ACTI Hamburg
and ACTI Ukraine created inaccurately described reserves in their books and records,
manipulated commodities contracts that were kept open for an extended period of time,
structured payments to avoid detection, and created fictitious insurance contracts to hide from
ADM and others the payments to third-parties to secure VAT refunds in Ukraine.

4. Due to the consolidation of ACTI’s financial results, which included these
inaccurately characterized payments, into ADM’s books and records, ADM violated Section
13(b)(2)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act’). ADM violated Section
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by failing to maintain an adequate system of internal controls to

detect and prevent the illicit payments.
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page3of14

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d) and 27 of
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§$78u(d) and 78aa]. ADM has, directly or indirectly, made use of
the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a
national securities exchange in connection with the transactions, acts, practices and courses of
business alleged in this Complaint.

6. Venue is proper in this district pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15

U.S.C. § 78aa], because ADM’s headquarters are located in Decatur, Illinois.

DEFENDANT

7. Archer-Daniels-Midland Company is a large agricultural processing company
based in Decatur, Illinois. It is incorporated in Delaware. ADM’s common stock is registered
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act and is traded on the New York

Stock Exchange under the symbol “ADM.”

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

8. Alfred C. Toepfer, International G.m.b.H. (“ACTI Hamburg’’) is a German
limited lability company that is headquartered in Hamburg, Germany. The business of ACTI
Hamburg, which operates thirty-six sales offices worldwide, specializes in agricultural
commodities and processed products. ADM initially acquired an indirect interest in ACTI in

1983 and, by 2002, obtained an indirect 80% ownership interest in ACTI Hamburg.
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page4of14

9. Alfred C. Toepfer International (Ukraine) Ltd. (“ACTI Ukraine’’) is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of ACTI, and an affiliate of ACTI Hamburg. It is headquartered in Kiev,

Ukraine and has six branch offices in addition to a facility at the Port of Odessa.

FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

Background
10. ADM first acquired an interest in ACTT in 1983 and, by 2002, indirectly owned

80% of its stock. Beginning in 2002, ADM consolidated ACTI’s financial results into ADM’s
financial statements. Accounting, tax, and sales personnel at ACTI reported to ACTI’s
management, not to personnel within the corresponding functions at ADM. ADM had only five
representatives on ACTI’s ten-person supervisory board during the relevant period, and ACTT’s
operations were largely independent from ADM’s operations. In fact, at times, ADM and ACTI
Hamburg traders competed against each other in bidding to fulfill grain contracts.

11. ACTI Hamburg sourced commodities in Ukraine through ACTI Ukraine in order
to make sales to customers outside of the Ukraine. ACTI Hamburg used ACTI Ukraine to fill
customer orders for agricultural commodities located in Ukraine. After ACTI Ukraine purchased
the agricultural products within the Ukraine, it arranged for their export from the Port of Odessa
on the Black Sea. ACTI Hamburg’s trading desk in Hamburg arranged the sales on behalf of
ACTI Ukraine. ADM did not implement controls that required pre-clearance or monitoring of
ACTI Hamburg’s relationship with third-party agents in the Ukraine or transactions involving
the Ukraine government.

12. Ukraine imposed a 20% VAT on goods purchased in Ukraine. If the goods were
exported, the exporter could apply for a refund of the VAT already paid to the government on

those goods. At certain times from 2002 until 2010, however, the Ukrainian government

4
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page5of14

determined to delay paying the VAT refunds owed or did not make any refund payments at all.
During these years, ACTI Ukraine accumulated large receivables for VAT refunds, including as
high as approximately $46 million at certain periods.

13. At certain times during the relevant period, in order to obtain VAT refunds, ACTI
Hamburg and ACTI Ukraine made improper payments, which were generally 18%-20% of the
corresponding VAT refunds, to two third-party vendors so that they could pass on nearly all of
the money to Ukrainian government officials with knowledge of and approval by ACTI
Hamburg. ACTI Ukraine and ACTI Hamburg used these two third-party vendors to cover up
bribes paid to Ukrainian government officials in exchange for those officials’ assistance in
helping ACTI Ukraine obtain VAT refunds. ACTI’s books and records improperly recorded the
payments as insurance premiums or other business expenses.

ADM Executives Are Told Charitable Donations Are Made to Secure ACTI Ukraine’s
VAT Refunds

14. In or around July 2002, executives from ACTI Hamburg traveled to ADM’s
headquarters in Decatur, Illinois for business meetings. In one of those meetings, these ACTI
executives met with executives from ADM’s tax department and discussed ACTI Ukraine’s
ability to recover VAT refunds and the way in which ACTI Ukraine was accounting for the
write-down of those refunds. During this discussion, the ACTI Hamburg executives stated that
the way in which ACTI Ukraine was recovering its VAT refunds was by making charitable
donations.

15. On or about October 4, 2002, an ADM executive in the tax department sent an e-
mail to the head of an international tax organization and stated, “One of our affiliates operates in
the Ukraine. In order to recover 100% of their input VAT they have to pay 30% of the amount

to local charities. The charitable amount is not deductible. Is this common practice in the

5
ae)
out :

Ukraine? Is this legal? Is there any way to avoid having to pay the 30% in order to get the
100%?”

16. On October 8, 2002, the ADM executive referenced in paragraph [5 above
forwarded the e-mail referenced in paragraph 15 above to two other executives in ADM’s tax
department, and stated that he had spoken with the head of the international tax organization and
that “the bottom line is that ACTI is getting screwed by someone...[T]he consensus is that there
is no way legislation could require this situation. H could very well be a local tax authority issue.
ly ACTI would like we could have the [tax organization] address this issue with the local tax
authorities as a policy matter and not a company specific issue. They could raise the issue with
some of the Tax Service headquarters people who the [tax organization] has had over to the US
and with the Deputy Minister of Finance. The [tax organization] could give ACT a veil to hide
behind as this issue is addressed with the authorities and, hopefully, results in a fix for ACTT.
Let me know what ACTI thinks about this.”

17. On or about October 24, 2002, one of the ADM executives who received the e-
mail referenced in paragraph 16 above sent an e-mail to the other two executives on the e-mail
referenced in paragraph 16 above, summarizing the follow-up meeting he had with executives
from ACTI Hamburg. In the e-mail, the ADM executive outlined six tax issues relating to ACTI
entities that he discussed with ACTI Hamburg executives, including the VAT refunds for ACTI
Ukraine, and stated, “[ACTT’s] current procedure is to book the input VAT as a balance sheet
receivable and write it down on average of 30% a year (depending on interest rates, devaluation,
etc.)... According to [an executive at ACTI Hamburg] it is a fight every year [to get VAT
refunds] but overall he thinks that Toepfer has good contacts with politicians and the authorities

in the Ukraine. I mentioned that [the ADM executive referenced in paragraph 16 above] had
some good contacts as well within business organizations operating in the Ukraine like the [the
tax organization referenced in paragraph 16 above] which also might be helpful. The issue here
is that [the ACTI Hamburg executive] to[ld] me that the Toepfer’s contacts usually ask for
‘donations’. I asked him how much were these ‘donations’ and he answered that they could be
up to 20% of the VAT receivable. My concern is that these ‘donations’ are not legal, not
deductible, are Subpart F income and against ADM corporate compliance policy. Additionally, I
am not sure that the way they are booking this VAT receivable is US GAAP. I am open to
suggestions on how to proceed on this.” The Internal Revenue Code defines “Subpart F income”’
in the case of any controlled foreign corporation to include, among other things, the “amounts of
any illegal bribes, kickbacks, or other payments . . . directly or indirectly to an official,
employee, or agent in fact of a government... ,” certain insurance income, foreign base
company income, certain foreign source income, including that attributable to the earnings and
profits of the foreign corporation, as well as certain income derived from any foreign country.

26 U.S.C. §952(a). The Internal Revenue Code further specifies that the “payments referred to
in paragraph (4) [of Subpart F] are payments which would be unlawful under the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act of 1977... .” 26 U.S.C. §952(a).

18. In or around 2004, ADM established a joint venture in Ukraine between ADM
and a Swiss company. In connection with the creation of the joint venture, ADM retained an
accounting firm to perform an analysis of tax issues that might arise.

19. On or about April 30, 2004, ADM’s accounting firm sent a letter to two ADM
executives, stating: “There are a number of structures aimed at facilitation of VAT refund that
are widespread in Ukraine....Some of these structures bear legal risks and may be challenged by

the tax authorities. Moreover, structures normally envisage that the exporter obtains VAT refund
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page8of14

with a 30-40% discount. From the discussions during our meeting in Odessa we learned that [the
Swiss joint venture company] currently implements various VAT optimization structures at its
subsidiary and plans to have them implemented at the joint venture. Since these structures often
lack transparency and sometimes have tax and legal risks attached, we believe there is a need to
perform a more detailed analysis of their applicability at the joint venture.”

20. Given ADM’s insufficient anti-bribery compliance policies and procedures at the
time, it did not prevent or detect the improper payments made by ACTI Ukraine or ACTI

Hamburg.

ACTI’s Improper Payments through a Shipping Company Vendor

21. At certain times between 2002 and 2008, ACTI Ukraine and ACTI Hamburg
made payments to a stevedoring company in the port of Odessa (the “Shipping Company’’) so
that it could pass on nearly all of those payments to Ukrainian officials in order to obtain VAT
refunds on behalf of ACTI Ukraine. Senior managers at ACTI Ukraine conspired with the owner
of the Shipping Company to artificially inflate invoices. The amount by which the invoices
between the Shipping Company and ACTI Hamburg were inflated represented a sum that was
available for the Shipping Company to pass to Ukraine government officials.

22. When ACTI Hamburg received the invoice from the Shipping Company, it
withheld payment of a portion of the amount in the invoice, and then upon receiving the relevant
VAT refund, ACTI Hamburg released the funds to the Shipping Company.

23. Certain executives at ACTI Hamburg were aware that the payments to and
arrangement with the Shipping Company were improper. In April 2002, an employee of ACTI

Hamburg cautioned his colleagues not to look too deeply into the Shipping Company: “For
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page9of14

reasons that you know (if you don’t know them, I will explain them to you verbally), we will
have to continue to make payments” to the Shipping Company.

24. In April 2005, the ACTI Ukraine general manager reported to senior ACTI
Hamburg officers that VAT claims had been aggregated in the escrow account used to pay the
Shipping Company. He also reported that part of the purpose of the escrow account was to avoid
scrutiny of the overpayments by ADM internal auditors and the ACTI Hamburg shareholders.

25. By the end of 2006, the receivable for Ukrainian VAT on ACTI Ukraine’s books
had grown to approximately $40 million. In a report dated December 29, 2006, ACTI
Hamburg’s Chairman wrote that “the situation in Ukraine has again returned to what we found
several years ago,” and that companies would once again have to bid for VAT refunds, a process
he described as a “bidding orgy.”

26. Between January and March 2007, ACTI Hamburg paid the Shipping Company
$8,236,269 in order to obtain VAT refunds totaling $46,366,107. The refunds generally arrived
within a day or two of the payments to the Shipping Company. ACTI Hamburg disguised these

payments on its books and records as prepayments for feed barley.

ACTI Maintains Inaccurate Entries on its Books Related to VAT Recovery

27. In January 2007, the size of the VAT receivable had risen to approximately $40
million dollars. The 20% reserve for this receivable drew the attention of ADM’s European
finance and controlling department. The department questioned ACTI on the basis for setting
aside such a large reserve.

28. After ACTI Ukraine received a VAT refund on or about January 23, 2007, an
ADM controller asked an executive at ACTI Hamburg what the basis of the VAT refund was. In

response, an ADM executive relayed from an executive at ACTI Hamburg that “this [VAT
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page 10of14

refund] is from 2005 . . . but the collection came with a price, the price being the government
required a ‘depreciation’ (as [the ACTI Hamburg Vice Chairman] called it) of 18%.....basically,
the companies owed the money from the government had to write off 18% to collect this amount.
He is hopeful there is no more ‘depreciation’ but he does not have a clear picture as to when the
payment might be received or how the govt will settle the balance. [T]he amount received will
not go towards the P&L as it is simply reducing the receivable and the amount written off
appears to be lost to the govt.”

29. Based on this exchange with ACTI Hamburg, ADM understood that ACTI
Ukraine expected to obtain VAT refunds resulting from negotiating a legal settlement with the
Ukrainian government, which would cause the receivable and corresponding reserve to decrease.
ACTI Hamburg, in efforts to avert ADM’s concerns regarding the size of the receivable, advised
that ACTI Ukraine, as part of the settlement, agreed to waive 18% of its VAT receivable. ACTI
Hamburg, however, never disclosed that the 18% figure represented approximately the amount
of improper payment provided to third-party vendors so that nearly all of those monies could be

provided to Ukrainian government officials.

ACTI Ukraine Makes Payments to a Third-Party by Using Fake Insurance Premiums

30. Between February 2007 and August 2008, the ACTI Ukraine general manager
organized a scheme through which ACTI Ukraine used a Ukrainian insurance company (the
“Insurance Company’’) to funnel improper payments to Ukrainian government officials. ACTI
Ukraine arranged for the Insurance Company to falsely bill it for crop insurance, which the
Insurance Company never intended to honor, adjusting the premiums to be roughly 20% of the
VAT refund. ACTI Ukraine improperly recorded the payments as insurance premiums in its

books and records.

10
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page1lof14

31. The improper payments through phony insurance contracts were made with the
knowledge and approval of senior officials at ACTI Hamburg. In February 2008, ACTI
Hamburg’s Vice Chairman reported to ACTI’s Chairman that the ACTI Ukraine general
manager “Just got an offer from someone to set up VAT refunds at a price 3% lower than the
current arrangement. . . . insurance money will now be used for VAT refunds.”

32. In addition, senior ACTI officials knew the insurance arrangement was not
legitimate, as evidenced by e-mail communications between the ACTI Ukraine CFO and ACTI
Hamburg senior managers, stating: “The contracts completed here, either sporadically or ad hoc,
include no kind of insurance protection, but serve the purpose only of generating a commission
for the VAT repayment in this manner. Regardless of the wording of the contract, the content is
completely different. That means that in case of conflict, claims could not be made
successfully.”

33. In all, ACTI Ukraine paid approximately $9 million through the Insurance
Company for refunds totaling $44 million, which were received between March 29, 2007 and
August 1, 2008. ACTI Ukraine misrepresented these payments as insurance premiums in its

books and records.

ADM’s Discovery and Subsequent Remedial Measures

34. In mid-2008, after becoming aware of these insurance expenses, ADM controllers
questioned ACTI executives regarding these expenses, particularly the basis for the accounting
treatment of these expenses. An ACTI Ukraine employee disclosed to its outside auditors that
the insurance payments were, in fact, made to secure VAT refunds. After ADM controllers

received this information, ADM’s legal and compliance departments took action, which led to an

11
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page 12of14

immediate investigation in which ADM ultimately uncovered ACTI’s various schemes to secure
VAT refunds.

35. Following discovery of these payments, ADM immediately retained outside
counsel to conduct an internal investigation. As a result of the investigation, using its authority
as majority shareholder through the ACTI supervisory board, ADM terminated certain ACTI
executives. ADM then voluntarily conducted a world-wide risk assessment and corresponding
global internal investigation, made numerous presentations to the Department of Justice and
Securities and Exchange Commission, made current and former employees available for
interviews, produced documents without subpoena, and implemented early and extensive

remedial measures.

ADM’s Violations

36. ACTI Hamburg and ACTI Ukraine characterized their improper payments to the
Shipping Company and the Insurance Company as insurance premiums and other business
expenses even though nearly all of those payments were intended to be used for payment to
Ukrainian government officials. Due to the consolidation of ACTI’s financial results into
ADM’s, ADM’s financial records also failed to reflect the true nature of the payments.

37. Between 2002 and 2008, ADM’s anti-corruption policies and procedures relating
to ACTI were decentralized and did not prevent improper payments by ACTI to third-party
vendors in the Ukraine or ensure that these transactions were properly recorded by ACTI. In this
respect, ADM failed to implement sufficient anti-bribery compliance policies and procedures,
including oversight of third-party vendor transactions, to prevent these payments at ACTI

Hamburg and ACTI Ukraine.

12
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page 13of14

38. Through its various schemes, ACTI Ukraine and ACTI Hamburg paid roughly
$22 million in improper payments to obtain more than $100 million in VAT refunds earlier than
they otherwise would have. Getting these VAT refunds earlier—before the Ukraine endured a
brief period of hyperinflation—gave ACTI Ukraine a business advantage resulting in a benefit to

ADM of roughly $33 million.

FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Violation of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A)
[15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(A)]

39, The Commission re-alleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs | through
38.

AO. As described above, ADM through its subsidiary, failed to keep books, records,
and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and
disposition of its assets.

Al. By reason of the foregoing, ADM violated, and unless enjoined will continue to

violate, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(A)].

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Violation of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B)
[15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(B)]

42. The Commission re-alleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs | through
41.

43. As described above, ADM failed to devise and maintain a system of internal
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions were executed in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (11) transactions were

recorded as necessary (1) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with

13
2:13-cv-02279 #1 Page 14of14

generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and

(II) to maintain accountability for its assets.

44. By reason of the foregoing, ADM violated, and unless enjoined will continue to

violate, Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(B)].

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court enter a final

judgment:

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining ADM from violating Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)];

B. Ordering ADM to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal

conduct, with prejudgment interest; and

C. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated December 20, 2013

Of Counsel:
Gerald W. Hodgkins
Anita B. Bandy

14

Respectfully submitted,

s/ Nicholas A. Brady

 

Nicholas A. Brady (D.C. Bar No. 484612)
Lead Counsel

Securities and Exchange Commission

100 F Street, NE

Washington, DC 20549

Tel: (202) 551-4732

Fax: (202) 772-9238

bradyn@ sec.gov

Timothy Leiman (Illinois Bar No. 6270153)
Securities and Exchange Commission
Chicago Regional Office

175 W. Jackson Blvd. Suite 900

Chicago, IL 60604

Tel: (312) 353-5213

leimant @sec.gov

Attorneys for Plaintiff
