Release Number 7505-16

> " _ a

i
r=] a
a, ey

a

  

December 21, 2016

CFTC Orders Goldman Sachs to Pay $120 Million Penalty for Attempted Manipulation of
and False Reporting of U.S. Dollar ISDAFIX Benchmark Swap Rates

Today’s Action Is the CFTC’s Third Enforcement Action for the
Attempted Manipulation and False Reporting of ISDAFIX Benchmark
Rates

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) issued an Order today filing and settling
charges against The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and Goldman, Sachs & Co. (collectively, Goldman or the Bank).
The Order finds that, beginning in January 2007 and continuing through March 2012 (the Relevant Period), Goldman
attempted, by and through certain of its traders in New York, on many occasions to manipulate and made false reports
concerning the U.S. Dollar International Swaps and Derivatives Association Fix (USD ISDAFIX), a global benchmark for
interest rate products. Goldman’s unlawful conduct involved multiple traders, including the head of Goldman’s Interest
Rate Products Trading Group in the United States, according to the CFTC Order.

The CFTC Order requires Goldman to pay a $120 million civil monetary penalty, cease and desist from further violations
as charged, and take specified remedial steps, including measures 1) to detect and deter trading intended to manipulate
swap rates such as USD ISDAFIX, 2) to ensure the integrity and reliability of the Bank’s benchmark submissions, and 3) to
improve related internal controls. The Order also requires the current supervisor responsible for oversight of various
United States interest-rate trading desks at Goldman to provide a certification as to, among other things, the
effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures undertaken and implemented by Goldman as a result of this
settlement.

“This matter, the third enforcement action relating to the ISDAFIX benchmark, demonstrates the breadth of this kind of
misconduct across the industry, and within Goldman, the extent of the misconduct across trading desks and product
lines,” commented Aitan Goelman, the CFTC’s Director of Enforcement. Mr. Goelman further commented that “the
Division will continue to be vigilant and aggressive in protecting the integrity of the ISDAFIX and other important
benchmarks relied upon by the markets.”

Goldman, through its traders, bid, offered, and executed transactions in interest rate swap spreads, U.S. Treasuries, and
Eurodollar futures contracts in a manner deliberately designed—in timing, price, and other respects—to influence the
published USD ISDAFIX in order to benefit the Bank in its derivatives positions, according to the Order. In addition,
Goldman, through its employees making the Bank’s USD ISDAFIX submissions, also attempted to manipulate and made
false reports concerning USD ISDAFIX by skewing the Bank’s submissions in order to benefit the Bank at the expense of
its derivatives counterparties and clients.

USD ISDAFIX

ISDAFIX rates and spreads are among the leading benchmarks for interest rate swaps and related derivatives, indicating
the prevailing, daily market rate for the fixed leg of a standard fixed-for-floating interest rate swap in various currencies.
USD ISDAFIX rates and spreads are published daily (now under a different name and methodology) for various maturities
of U.S. Dollar-denominated swaps. The USD ISDAFIX rate is used for valuing cash settlement of options on interest rate
swaps, or swaptions, and as a valuation tool for a wide range of products across financial markets. For example, during
the Relevant Period, USD ISDAFIX was used in settlement of exchange-traded interest rate swap futures contracts and as
a component in the calculation of various constant maturity swaps, spreadlocks, proprietary interest rate indexes, and
other structured products. Many parties, including pension funds and local and state governments in the United States,
rely on such instruments based on USD ISDAFIX to hedge against changes in interest rates.

During the Relevant Period, USD ISDAFIX was set each day in a process that began at exactly 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time
with the capture and recording of swap rates and spreads from a U.S.-based unit of a leading interest rate swaps broking
firm, which disseminated the rates and spreads captured in this 11:00 a.m. “snapshot,” “fix,” or “print’—as it was
referred to by traders and brokers—to a panel of banks including Goldman. The banks then made submissions to indicate
where they would each bid or offer interest rate swaps to a dealer of good credit.

Goldman’s Unlawful Conduct to Benefit Derivatives Positions

As found in the Order, Goldman attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX through its trading at the 11:00 a.m. fixing as well
as by skewing the Bank’s submissions, in order to benefit a range of derivatives positions held by Goldman that were
priced or valued against the USD ISDAFIX benchmark.
Goldman traders bid, offered, and executed transactions of swap spreads, U.S. Treasuries, and Eurodollar futures
contracts at the critical 11:00 a.m. fixing time with the intent to affect the “print,” i.e., the reference rates captured at
11:00 a.m. and sent to submitting banks, and thereby to affect the published USD ISDAFIX. As captured in emails and
audio recordings, when Goldman had derivatives positions settling or pricing against USD ISDAFIX, Goldman traders
discussed their intent to move USD ISDAFIX in whichever direction benefitted their positions. Goldman traders stated
their manipulative goals in plain language, such as directing their swap broker to “spend what you need, but make SURE
we get the print,” and even objected when their attempts to manipulate were not performed as inexpensively as
possible, such as when the former head of Goldman’s swap trading desk complained, “I should control the screen without
having to given [sic] some loser another [trade].”

Among themselves, Goldman traders described trades based on the manipulated USD ISDAFIX as being based on the
“jacked price,” aS opposed to the “fair price”; remarked that other Goldman traders had “gamed the fix” in order to
benefit related positions; and strategized how best to extract the “higher value” of USD ISDAFIX cash settlements against
customers who lacked Goldman’s view, as a major swap dealer, into the USD ISDAFIX setting process.

To complement these efforts, as found in the Order, on many occasions during the Relevant Period, Goldman traders
made USD ISDAFIX submissions higher or lower for the purpose of benefitting derivative positions priced or valued
against the benchmark. As the Order finds, these submissions by Goldman were false, misleading, or knowingly
inaccurate because they did not report where Goldman would itself bid and offer swaps absent a desire to manipulate the
USD ISDAFIX, but rather reflected prices that were more favorable to the Bank’s specific derivatives positions.

The Order describes multiple examples of each of these strategies for attempted manipulation and false reporting by
Goldman traders during the Relevant Period.

The Order notes that prior to the latter stages of the Division’s investigation, Goldman’s cooperation was not satisfactory.
Goldman did not make certain productions as expeditiously as the Division expected and initially failed to produce
certain communications and documents that were potentially relevant to identifying misconduct. The Order recognizes
that Goldman took remedial action to improve internal controls and policies related to ISDAFIX and its successor
benchmark.

The CFTC thanks and acknowledges the assistance of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority and the Newark, New Jersey
Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Candice Aloisi, Gates S. Hurand, Trevor Kokal,
David W. MacGregor, Chad E. Silverman (former staff), K. Brent Tomer, Lenel Hickson, Jr., and Manal M. Sultan.

The following staff members also assisted in this case: Jason Fairbanks, Jordon Grimm, David C. Newman, David W.
Oakland, Mark A. Picard, and James G. Wheaton.

* KKK *K

With Today’s Actions, the CFTC Has Imposed over $5.2 Billion in Penalties in 18 Actions against Banks and
Brokers to Address ISDAFIX, FX, and LIBOR Benchmark Abuses

The CFTC has imposed penalties of over $5.2 billion in its investigation of manipulation of global benchmark rates. Of
this, over $1.8 billion in penalties has been imposed on six banks for misconduct relating to foreign exchange
benchmarks, while over $3.3 billion has been imposed for misconduct relating to ISDAFIX, LIBOR, Euribor, and other
interest rate benchmarks. Below is a summary of the CFTC’s actions:

Foreign Exchange Benchmark Cases

In re Barclays Bank PLC (May 20, 2015) ($400 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7181-15)

In re Citibank, N.A. (November 11, 2014) ($310 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7056-14)

In re JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (November 11, 2014) ($310 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7056-14)

In re The Royal Bank of Scotland pic (November 11, 2014) ($290 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7056-14)

In re UBS AG (November 11, 2014) ($290 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7056-14)

In re HSBC Bank plc (November 11, 2014) ($275 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7056-14)

LIBOR Benchmark Cases

In re Citibank, N.A., and affiliates (May 25, 2016) ($175 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7372-16)

In re Deutsche Bank AG (April 23, 2015) ($800 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7159-15)

In re UBS AG and UBS Securities Japan Co., Ltd. (December 19, 2012) ($700 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 6472-
12)

In re Codperatieve Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A. (Rabobank) (October 29, 2013) ($475 million penalty) (CFTC
Press Release 6752-13)

In re The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and RBS Securities Japan Limited (February 6, 2013) ($325 million penalty) (CFTC
Press Release 6510-13)
In re Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and Barclays Capital Inc. (June 27, 2012) ($200 million penalty) (CFTC Press
Release 6289-12)

In re Lloyds Banking Group plc and Lloyds Bank plc (July 28, 2014) ($105 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 6966-14)
In re ICAP Europe Limited (September 25, 2013) ($65 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 6708-13)

In re RP Martin Holdings Limited and Martin Brokers (UK) Ltd. (May 15, 2014) ($1.2 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release
6930-14)

ISDAFIX Benchmark Cases
In re Citibank, N.A., (May 25, 2016) ($250 million penalty) (CFTC Press Release 7371-16)

In re Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and Barclays Capital Inc. (May 20, 2015) ($115 million penalty) (CFTC Press
Release 7180-15)

In re The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and Goldman, Sachs & Co., N.A. (December 21, 2016) ($120 million penalty)

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: December 21, 2016
