2020-BCFP-0006 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 1 of 64

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP- 0006

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Prime Choice Funding, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of Prime Choice Funding, Inc. (Prime
Choice or Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24 of
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in
Lending Act (TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts
and Practices—Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. §
1014.3; and §§ 1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under §8 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12

U.S.C. 88 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order.
Overview
Prime Choice is a mortgage broker and lender that offers and provides
mortgages guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA). Sometimes, it has acted as the creditor, providing loans itself; in other
situations, it has acted as a broker, arranging for another creditor to provide
loans.
Prime Choice advertises these mortgage products to consumers through
direct-mail advertising campaigns.
Prime Choice has sent consumers millions of advertisements that violate
federal law because of misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop Prime Choice from distributing
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.
I.
Jurisdiction
The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $$ 5563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12

U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as
amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5538.
HI.
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a

Consent Order,” dated July 13, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated by

reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent has

consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under §§

1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or

denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that

Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction

over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

IV.
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertising Compliance Official” means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 151. The Advertising Compliance
Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,

chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
S9°0.BCER.coNs Doe
SUES PRCA LAG

athe A A

of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be in a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears; presented before the consumer incurs any
financial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exemplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contained in the advertisement as sent, posted,
published, or disseminated to a consumer.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of

one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
10.

11.

governmental agency brought against Respondent based on

substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent

Order.

g. “Relevant Period” includes from January 1, 2016, to the Effective
Date.

h. “Respondent” means Prime Choice Funding, Inc., and its successors

and assigns.
V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions
The Bureau finds the following:
Prime Choice is a California corporation with its principal place of business
in Tustin, California.
Prime Choice is licensed as a mortgage broker or lender in about 35 states
and the District of Columbia.
Prime Choice is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(19),
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.F.R. §
1014.2, because it is a corporation.
During the Relevant Period, Prime Choice has been a “covered person”
under the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages

in offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

financial product|s]| or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6),
(15)(A)Q@).

During the Relevant Period, Prime Choice has been subject to the MAP Rule
because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58.
12 C.F.R. § 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 548114).

Prime Choice provides “mortgage credit product[s],” as that term is defined
in the MAP Rule. 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

Prime Choice’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
in 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, Prime Choice has offered “closed-end credit” in
the form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10) & (11).

Prime Choice’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end
credit,” as that term is defined in Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10).
Prime Choice offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed

by the VA.
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

AAA Peeier Aa mf Pa
O20-BCFR-O006 Dox
Bat Ne : IAS ath.

athe A A

Prime Choice’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, including veterans
and servicemembers.

Since January 2016, Prime Choice has mailed millions of mortgage
advertisements to consumers in about 35 states and the District of Columbia.
Hundreds of thousands of consumers have received at least one of Prime
Choice’s direct-mail advertisements, and thousands of consumers have

obtained mortgages through Prime Choice.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations

Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, Prime Choice was responsible for both the
content of, and the dissemination of, numerous mortgage advertisements
during the Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate
statements, as described below.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate
Representations About Cost and Other Credit Terms

Most of Prime Choice’s mortgage advertisements stated specific credit
terms, such as an interest rate, annual percentage rate (APR), payment

amount, index, margin, or closing costs.
24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, Prime Choice
represented, expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a
mortgage with those credit terms.

In fact, Prime Choice did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific
credit terms stated in many of those advertisements.

In numerous instances, Prime Choice misrepresented the actual credit terms
applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements described mortgages with
a simple interest rate and APR combination that, on the date of the
advertisement, Prime Choice was not actually prepared to arrange or offer.
For example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 84,000 consumers in
October 2018 advertised a variable-rate mortgage with a fixed interest rate
of 2.625% for the first five years and an APR of 3.375%.

In fact, the advertised APR was not correct for any loan that Prime Choice
was prepared to arrange or offer because it did not take into account the fully
indexed rate, required discount points, or origination, underwriting, or
funding fees.

The actual APR for this loan, calculated in accordance with Regulation Z
and taking into account the fully indexed rate, required discount points, and

origination, underwriting, and funding fees, was at least 4.042%.
31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

Accordingly, Prime Choice misrepresented the actual APR for loans offered
in these advertisements.

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements misrepresented the
payment amount applicable to the advertised loan.

For example, in an advertisement sent to a consumer in July 2016, Prime
Choice misstated the payment amounts that would apply to the advertised
loans. The advertisement stated that a consumer seeking a loan amount of
$366,715 could obtain a 2.75% APR fixed-rate loan with a payment amount
of $840, and that the consumer could obtain an additional $30,000 in cash
for a total new payment amount of $909. Those payment amounts were
false; the actual minimum payments that would apply to the advertised loans
were each at least $600 more than the advertised payment amounts.
Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements misrepresented the
existence, nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in
connection with the mortgage.

For example, in advertisements sent to more than 87,000 consumers in April
2019, Prime Choice stated: “You have been pre-selected for a U.S.
Department of Veteran Affairs program that allows you to combine your
mortgage and other debt, plus get an additional $27,500 in unrestricted cash

today for only $125.41 per month.” But in order for the consumer to
36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

“combine [their] mortgage and other debt” and obtain $27,500 in cash, the
consumer would have to have more than $27,500 in equity in their home—a
factor that Prime Choice did not take into consideration when selecting the
recipients of the advertisement. The representation that $27,500 in cash was
available was likely false for many consumers.

Moreover, there was no way the consumer could obtain $27,500 in cash on
the same day as the advertisement, despite the representation that the cash
could be obtained “today.”

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements misrepresented variable-
rate loans as “fixed” rate loans.

For example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 99,200 consumers in July
2016 used the word “fixed” in bold font and capitalized letters next to the
advertised interest rate on the front, but in fine print on the back, indicated
that the advertised loan was, in fact, a variable-rate mortgage.

In these advertisements, the phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,” “Variable-
Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” did not appear before the first use of the word
“fixed,” nor was it at least as conspicuous as any use of the word “fixed” in
the advertisements.

In these advertisements, each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate or

payment was not accompanied by an equally prominent and closely
4).

42.

43.

44,

45.

proximate statement of the period for which the rate or payment would be
fixed and the fact that the rate may vary or the payment may increase after
that period.

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements misrepresented the
existence and amount of fees or costs to the consumer.

For example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 99,200 consumers in July
2016 prominently featured the words “NO CLOSING COSTS” on the front
page of the advertisements, in bold, capitalized letters, along with an
advertised APR of 2.75%.

But consumers could not obtain a loan from Prime Choice with an APR of
2.75% without paying closing costs. Therefore, in connection with the loan
that Prime Choice was advertising, the statement “NO CLOSING COSTS”
was false.

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained inaccurate
disclosures that misrepresented certain factors used to determine the variable
rate applicable to the advertised mortgage, including the applicable index,
margin, or rate-increase caps.

For example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 84,000 people in October

2018 stated that the margin was fixed at 1.75%. That statement was false
46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

because the margin for the loans offered in those advertisements was in fact
2%.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 27-45
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations Related to the
Consumer’s Finances or Qualification for the Advertised Loan

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements misrepresented the
consumer’s likelihood of obtaining the advertised mortgage or a specific
credit term, including whether the consumer had been preapproved or
qualified for the advertised product or term.

For example, numerous Prime Choice advertisements stated that the
recipients of the advertisements had been “pre-selected for a U.S.
Department of Veteran Affairs program” to obtain the advertised loan under
the terms stated in advertisement. But that statement was false because those
consumers had not actually been pre-selected for the advertised product or
the terms of that product.

In another example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 321,000 consumers

in November and December 2018, prominently labeled “URGENT
SI.

52.

53.

54.

NOTICE,” included a quote from forbes.com stating that the Federal
Reserve “expects three or more rate increases in 2018” and stated: “Based
on our information, this WILL affect your monthly budget.” The
advertisements further stated: “You have been preselected and already have
what it takes to qualify” for the advertised loan products. These statements
were misleading because Prime Choice did not have specific information
about the finances of the consumer and the recipients had not been
preselected.

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements also contained misleading
comparisons between hypothetical credit terms and the terms of the
advertised product.

Specifically, Prime Choice advertisements sent to more than 30,000
consumers in March 2018 made a comparison between a hypothetical
payment ($664) and interest rate (19.90%) for the consumer’s current debt,
and an advertised payment amount ($121) and interest rate (2.625% / 3.25%
APR) for the advertised loan.

The payment amount and interest rate for the advertised loan were not
available for the full period of the loan.

The advertisements did not include a clear and conspicuous comparison to

each simple interest rate that would apply over the term of the loan or the
55.

56.

57.

58.

amount of each payment that would apply over the term of the loan.
Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 48—54
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations About an
Affiliation with the Government

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements falsely represented,
directly or by implication, through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that
resemble those of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), that Prime Choice

was affiliated with the government or that the advertised product related to a
federal tax benefit, or was endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with the IRS.
For example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 161,000 consumers
between June 2018 and January 2019 were formatted with text boxes that
strongly resembled an IRS form; were titled “Loan Review Notification |
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 2017”; and were labeled “Form 2017-1 Notification
of Eligibility,” using much larger font for the alleged form number (2017-
1)—a distinctive format used by the IRS. They also included the year
2017” printed in block letters with the “20” in white and the “17” in black,

another distinctive format used by the IRS.
59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

In fact, Prime Choice was not affiliated with the government and the
products offered in these advertisements did not relate to any federal tax
benefits, nor were the products endorsed by, sponsored by, or affiliated with
the IRS.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 57—59
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations About a Property Assessment
Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements misrepresented that the
advertisements contained property assessments, that the sender had
conducted or obtained a property assessment, and that the loan terms offered
in the advertisement were based on a property assessment.

Specifically, Prime Choice advertisements sent to more than 30,000
consumers in March 2018 were captioned “RE: Property Assessment,” and
featured a photograph of the recipient’s property. Both the caption and photo
were visible through the envelopes and on the face of the advertisements.
There was no other text on the outside of the envelopes to indicate that they
were, in fact, mortgage advertisements and were not directly related to a

property assessment of the property in question.
65.

66.

67.

68.

The net impression of the mailers, from the outside of the envelope, was that
they contained a property assessment or were a response to such an
assessment. As seen from the outside of the envelopes, these mailers were
likely to mislead a consumer acting reasonably under the circumstances to
believe that the mailers contained or were in response to a property
assessment of the featured property.

Once the consumer opened the envelope, the contents of the enclosed
advertisement gave the net impression that Prime Choice had obtained an
assessment of the consumer’s property featured in the advertisement and that
the proposed loan terms were based on that assessment. The document title,
“RE: Property Assessment,” and the photograph of the property, both at the
top of the advertisement, were likely to mislead a consumer acting
reasonably under the circumstances to believe that Prime Choice had
obtained the property assessment or that the mailing was in response to an
assessment of this property, and that the loan terms promoted in the
advertisement were based on that assessment.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 62-66
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.
69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

Inadequate Disclosures
Most of Prime Choice’s mortgage advertisements stated a period of
repayment, payment amount, finance charge, or simple annual rate of
interest. Under certain sections of Regulation Z, including § 1026.24(c), (d),
and (f), the use of these terms triggers specific disclosure requirements.
Many of the advertisements did not include the other disclosures that are
required, or did not include them in the manner required.
Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements stated a simple annual
interest rate more conspicuously than the APR.
Specifically, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 99,600 consumers in
February 2017 stated a simple annual rate of 3.25% in bold font in the first
paragraph of the letter, and the APR was only stated in smaller, not-bolded
font elsewhere on the page.
Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements stated the period of
repayment or the amount of a payment, but failed to state the terms of
repayment reflecting the consumer’s repayment obligations over the full
term of the loan.
For example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to more than 400,000
consumers in October 2017 stated a payment amount based on a discounted,

introductory rate of 2.25% that would apply for the first three years. After
74.

75.

the first three years, the rate would rise based on the applicable index and
margin, which was at least 2.96% as of the date of the advertisements. Thus,
higher monthly payments would apply for the remaining term of the loan,
but the advertisements did not state the number and period of the subsequent
payments and the amounts of those payments. The advertisements also failed
to state that the term of the advertised loan was 30 years.

Numerous Prime Choice advertisements for a mortgage loan for which more
than one interest rate would apply stated a simple annual rate of interest, but,
for variable-rate transactions, failed to state a rate determined by adding an
index and margin, based on a reasonably current index and margin; failed to
state the period during which each simple annual rate of interest would
apply; failed to state an accurate APR for the loan because the stated APR
was not correctly calculated under Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1026.17(c)
and 1026.22; or failed to state these terms clearly and conspicuously.

As an example of the various deficiencies described in Paragraph 74, Prime
Choice advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to 137,000 people in
February 2018 stated an introductory annual rate of interest of 2.625% that

applied to the first three years of the advertised loan.
70.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

Although a variable rate applied to the remaining term of the loan, the
advertisements failed to state a rate determined by adding an index and
margin, based on a reasonably current index and margin.

The advertisements were dated February 15, 2018; the index during the 60-
day period before that date was at least 1.70%; the margin was 1.75%; and
thus the fully indexed rate, based on a reasonably current index and margin,
was at least 3.45%.

The advertisements did not state that rate, or any other rate determined by
adding an index and margin, based on a reasonably current index and
margin.

The only period stated in the advertisements was the initial three years; the
advertisements did not state the term of the loan or otherwise state the period
during which each simple annual rate of interest would apply.

Moreover, the APR disclosed—2.99%—was inaccurate. In fact, the APR for
the loans promoted in those advertisements was at least 3.26%. The APR
disclosed in the advertisements did not comply with the accuracy standards
set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 1026.22(a)(2).

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements stated the amount of a
payment, but failed to state the amount of each payment that would apply

over the term of the loan (e.g., for adjustable-rate mortgages, payments
82.

83.

84.

based on the application of the sum of a reasonably current index and
margin); failed to state the period during which each payment would apply;
failed to state the fact that the advertised payments did not include amounts
for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation would be greater; or failed to state these terms clearly and
conspicuously.

As an example of the various deficiencies described in Paragraph 81, Prime
Choice advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to more than 16,000
consumers in November 2018 stated a payment amount that was based on a
discounted, introductory rate of 3.75%, which applied for the first five years.
That payment was not calculated based on the index and margin that would
be used to make subsequent payment adjustments over the remaining term of
the loan, and the advertisements failed to state such a payment amount.

As of the date of the advertisements, November 8, 2018, a reasonably
current index rate, based on the One-Year Constant Maturity Treasury rate,
was at least 2.53%, and the margin was fixed at 1.75%, making the fully
indexed rate at least 4.28%. Starting in year four, payments for the proposed
loan, based on the fully indexed rate, would be at least $580, not including
any applicable taxes and insurance premiums. No such payment amount was

stated in the advertisements.
85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

Moreover, the advertisements failed to state, clearly and conspicuously, the
period during which each payment would apply.

In addition, the advertisements failed to state, clearly and conspicuously, that
the payments did not include amounts for taxes and insurance premiums, if
applicable, and that the actual payment obligation would be greater.

In another example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to more than 30,000
consumers in March 2018 stated a payment amount of $121, which was for
the advertised cash-out amount only and was based on a discounted,
introductory rate of 2.625%, which only applied for the first three years.
These advertisements failed to disclose subsequent payments after the initial
three years, failed to disclose the period in which each payment would

apply, failed to state the full payment amount, and failed to state that the
payment amounts did not include taxes and insurance premiums, if
applicable, and that the actual payment obligation would be greater.

In addition, the advertisements failed to state, clearly and conspicuously, that
the advertised payment did not include amounts for taxes and insurance
premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment obligation would be
greater.

Numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements used the name of the

consumer’s current lender without disclosing with equal prominence the
91.

92.

93.

name of the person making the advertisement and without including a clear
and conspicuous statement that the person making the advertisement was not
associated with or acting on behalf of the consumer’s current lender.
For example, Prime Choice advertisements sent to 358,000 consumers
between April and July 2016 stated the name of the consumer’s current
lender at the top of the advertisements, while Prime Choice’s name appeared
only in small print on the back of the advertisements. The advertisements
also failed to include a clear and conspicuous statement that the person
making the advertisement was not associated with or acting on behalf of the
consumer’s current lender.
VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION Z

Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a)
Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a), “[i]f an advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”
Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 23—
45, numerous Prime Choice advertisements for credit stated specific credit
terms other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or

offered by the creditor.
94.

95.

96.

ARAN SEP Ame
SOOO ROE BLAS
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

Interest Rates Other than the APR, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(c):
If an advertisement states a rate of finance charge, it shall state
the rate as an “annual percentage rate,” using that term. If the
annual percentage rate may be increased after consummation,
the advertisement shall state that fact.... If an advertisement
is for credit secured by a dwelling, the advertisement shall not
state any other rate [other than the APR], except that a simple
annual rate that is applied to an unpaid balance may be stated

in conjunction with, but not more conspicuously than, the
[APR].

Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 70-—
71, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements stated a simple annual

interest rate more conspicuously than the APR.
Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), if an advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t]he terms of repayment, which reflect

the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, including any

balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), (2)ai).
97.

98.

99.

NAAN RAR ary
SOOO RCE BRB LAs
Ba Sf tn ST et

Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs 72—
73, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements set forth the period of
repayment or the amount of any payment, which are triggering terms under §
1026.24(d)(1)(i1) and (111), but failed to state the repayment obligations over

the full term of the loan, pursuant to § 1026.24(d)(2)(i1).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)()

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(1), ifa direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annual rate of interest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) Each simple annual rate of interest that will apply.
In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by
adding an index and margin shall be disclosed based on

a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each simple
annual rate of interest will apply; and

(C) The [APR] for the loan. If such rate is variable, the

[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
§§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(f)(2)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs
74-80, numerous Prime Choice direct-mail mortgage advertisements for a
loan for which more than one interest rate would apply stated a simple

annual rate of interest, but did not include one or more of the disclosures
ARAN SEP Ame
SOOO ROE BLAS
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(2)(1)(A) through (C), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(2)aii).
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)

100. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)G), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the amount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that will apply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be

disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first lien on a
dwelling, the fact that the payments do not include amounts
for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the
actual payment obligation will be greater.
101. Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(f)(3)q) because, as described in Paragraphs
81—89, numerous Prime Choice direct-mail mortgage advertisements stated
the amount of a payment but did not include one or more of the disclosures

required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)(A) through (C), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(3)ai).
Misleading Use of the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(1)
102. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(1), mortgage advertisements may not:

Us[e] the word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the
credit transaction in an advertisement for variable-rate
transactions or other transactions where the payment will
increase, unless:

(i) In the case of an advertisement solely for one or more
variable-rate transactions,

(A) The phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,”
“Variable-Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” appears in the
advertisement before the first use of the word “fixed”
and is at least as conspicuous as any use of the word
“fixed” in the advertisement; and

(B) Each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate or
payment is accompanied by an equally prominent and
closely proximate statement of the time period for
which the rate or payment is fixed, and the fact that the
rate may vary or the payment may increase after that
period;

(ii) In the case of an advertisement solely for non-variable-
rate transactions where the payment will increase (e.g., a
stepped-rate mortgage transaction with an initial lower
payment), each use of the word “fixed” to refer to the payment
is accompanied by an equally prominent and closely
proximate statement of the time period for which the payment
is fixed, and the fact that the payment will increase after that
period; or

(iii) In the case of an advertisement for both variable-rate
transactions and non-variable-rate transactions,

(A) The phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,”
“Variable-Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” appears in the
advertisement with equal prominence as any use of the
term “fixed,” “Fixed-Rate Mortgage,” or similar terms;
and

(B) Each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate,
payment, or the credit transaction either refers solely to
the transactions for which rates are fixed and complies
with paragraph (1)(1)(ii) of this section, if applicable,
or, if it refers to the variable-rate transactions, is
accompanied by an equally prominent and closely
proximate statement of the time period for which the
rate or payment is fixed, and the fact that the rate may
vary or the payment may increase after that period.

103. Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(i)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs
37—40, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements for variable-rate
transactions used the word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the credit
transaction and did not comply with the requirements of § 1026.24()(1)q)

through (ili).
Misleading Cost Comparisons, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(2)

104. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(2), mortgage advertisements may not:

Mak[e] any comparison . . . between actual or hypothetical
credit payments or rates and any payment or simple annual
rate that will be available under the advertised product for a
period less than the full term of the loan, unless:

(1) In general. The advertisement includes a clear and
conspicuous comparison to the information required to
be disclosed under § 1026.24(f)(2) and (3); and
(ii) Application to variable-rate transactions. If the
advertisement is for a variable-rate transaction, and the
advertised payment or simple annual rate is based on
the index and margin that will be used to make
subsequent rate or payment adjustments over the term
of the loan, the advertisement includes an equally
prominent statement in close proximity to the payment
or rate that the payment or rate is subject to adjustment
and the time period when the first adjustment will
occur.

105. Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(i)(2) because, as described in Paragraphs
51—54, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained a
comparison between actual or hypothetical payments or rates and a payment
or simple annual rate that would be available under the advertised loan for a
period less than the full term of the loan and did not comply with the

requirements of § 1026.24(1)(2)Q) and (ii).
Misleading Use of the Current Lender’s Name, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(4)

106. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(4), mortgage advertisements may not:

Us[e] the name of the consumer’s current lender in an
advertisement that is not sent by or on behalf of the
consumer’s current lender, unless the advertisement:

(1) Discloses with equal prominence the name of the
person or creditor making the advertisement; and

(ii) Includes a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement is not associated
with, or acting on behalf of, the consumer’s current
lender.
107.

108.

109.

ARAN SEP Ame
SOOO ROE BLAS
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

Prime Choice violated § 1026.24(i)(4) because, as described in Paragraphs
90-91, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements, which were not
sent by or on behalf of the consumer’s current lender, used the name of the
consumer’s current lender and did not (1) disclose with equal prominence
the name of the person or creditor making the advertisement, as required by
§ 1026.24(1)(4)(); or (2) include a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement was not associated with, or acting on

behalf of, the consumer’s current lender, as required by § 1026.24(1)(4)(11).

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP RULE (REGULATION N)

Misrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he annual
percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”
applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a
misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 27—
31 and 75—80, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained

misrepresentations about the APR applicable to a mortgage credit product.
110.

111.

112.

ALOAaH
Liye
See

Misrepresentations About Fees or Costs, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|[t]he existence,
nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer associated with the
mortgage credit product, including but not limited to misrepresentations that
no fees are charged.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is
specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 41—
43, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the existence, nature, or amount of fees or costs to

the consumer associated with a mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations Using the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he
variability of interest, payments, or other terms of the mortgage credit

product, including but not limited to misrepresentations using the word
113.

114.

115.

ALOAaH
Liye
See

‘fixed.’” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(g) because, as described in Paragraphs 37—
40, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the variability of interest, payments, or other terms
of a mortgage by using the word “fixed” to describe a variable-rate mortgage

credit product.
Misleading Comparisons, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(h)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(h), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, including:
Any comparison between:
(1) Any rate or payment that will be available for a
period less than the full length of the mortgage credit

product; and

(2) Any actual or hypothetical rate or payment.

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.
Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(h) because, as described in Paragraphs 51—

54, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained a
116.

117.

APOE
ae eh Se
SPU

misrepresentation about a mortgage credit product consisting of a misleading
comparison between: (1) a rate or payment that would be available for a
period less than the full length of the mortgage credit product; and (2) an

actual or hypothetical rate or payment.

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(j)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|[t]he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, including but not limited to
misrepresentations that the consumer will receive a certain amount of cash
or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(j) because, as described in Paragraphs 34—
36, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available
to the consumer in connection with the mortgage credit product, including
misrepresentations that the consumer would receive a certain amount of cash

as part of a mortgage credit transaction.
Misrepresentations About Payments, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k)

118. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|[t]he existence,
number, amount, or timing of any minimum or required payments, including
but not limited to misrepresentations about any payments or that no
payments are required in a reverse mortgage or other mortgage credit
product.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

119. Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(k) because, as described in Paragraphs 32—
33, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the payments that would be required in connection

with the advertised mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations About Government Affiliation, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n)

120. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about:

the association of the mortgage credit product or any provider

of such product with any other person or program, including
but not limited to misrepresentations that:
121.

122.

(1) The provider is, or is affiliated with, any
governmental entity or other organization; or

(2) The product is or relates to a government benefit, or
is endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with any
government or other program, including but not limited
to through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that

resemble those of such entity, organization, or
program.

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(n) because, as described in Paragraphs 57—
59, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit
product was affiliated with the government or that the product related to a
federal tax benefit, or was endorsed by, sponsored by, or affiliated with the
IRS, through the use of certain phrases as well as formats, symbols, or logos
that resemble those of the IRS.

Misrepresentations About Consumer’s
Ability to Obtain Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(q)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(q), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he

consumer’s ability or likelihood to obtain any mortgage credit product or
123.

124.

125.

126.

term, including but not limited to misrepresentations concerning whether the
consumer has been preapproved or guaranteed for any such product or
term.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Prime Choice violated § 1014.3(q) because, as described in Paragraphs 48—
50, numerous Prime Choice mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the consumer’s ability or likelihood to obtain the
advertised mortgage credit product or term.

VIOLATIONS OF THE CFPA

Under the CFPA, it is unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-financial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Information that is likely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers.
127.

128.

129.

130.

PRESS
ae SES
See

Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms
In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 23-47, Prime Choice’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
specific credit terms were available or would be arranged or offered by the
creditor, including representations about specific APRs, payment amounts,
the variable or fixed nature of rates or payments, closing costs, indexes,
margins, or rate-increase caps stated in those advertisements, when in fact
those specific credit terms were not available or were not terms that Prime
Choice was actually prepared to arrange or offer.
Prime Choice’s misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised
credit terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers
acting reasonably under the circumstances.
Prime Choice’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.
Therefore, Prime Choice engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation

of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
Deceptive Representations About Consumers’ Finances or Qualification

131.

132.

133.

134.

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 48—56, Prime Choice’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
Prime Choice had specific information about the finances of the consumer
who received the advertisement, whether the consumer was qualified to
obtain the advertised loan terms, the consumer’s likelihood of obtaining the
advertised mortgage, and the benefit to the consumer of refinancing his or
her mortgage.

In fact, Prime Choice did not have specific information about the finances of
the consumer who received the advertisement, whether the consumer was
qualified to obtain the advertised loan terms, the consumer’s likelihood of
obtaining the advertised mortgage, and the benefit to the consumer of
refinancing his or her mortgage.

Prime Choice’s representations that it had specific information about
consumers’ finances and qualifications for specific credit terms were likely
to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Prime Choice’s representations that it had information about consumers’
finances and qualifications for specific credit terms were material because

they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of consumers.
135.

136.

137.

138.

139.

140.

Therefore, Prime Choice engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation
of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About Government Affiliation
In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 57-61, Prime Choice’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
Prime Choice was affiliated with the government or that the advertised
product related to a federal tax benefit, or was endorsed, sponsored by, or
affiliated with the IRS.
In fact, Prime Choice was not affiliated with the government and the
advertised product did not relate to a federal tax benefit and was not
endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with the IRS.
Prime Choice’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were likely
to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.
Prime Choice’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were
material because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of
consumers.
Therefore, Prime Choice engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation

of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
141.

142.

143.

144,

145.

146.

Deceptive Representations About a Property Assessment
In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 62-68, Prime Choice’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that the
advertisement contained a property assessment, that the sender had
conducted or obtained a property assessment, and that the loan terms stated
in the advertisement were based on a property assessment.
In fact, the advertisement was not a property assessment, Prime Choice had
not conducted a property assessment, and the loan terms offered in the
advertisement were not based on a property assessment.
Prime Choice’s misrepresentations about a property assessment were likely
to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.
Prime Choice’s misrepresentations about a property assessment were
material because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of
consumers.
Therefore, Prime Choice engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation
of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Violations of the CFPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule

Under the CFPA, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer

financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules
AAA RE Re
IP O-BCE Rona
Ba Sf tn ST et

thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5536(a)(1 )(A), 5481(14).

147. Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.

148. Prime Choice’s violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 92-123, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12
U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS
VI.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements
IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§

5563, 5565, that:

149. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, and
in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale
of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or
by implication:
1. Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to the following: the total

costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or
central characteristics;

The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any
consumer; whether the consumer was pre-selected or pre-
qualified for the advertised or offered mortgage; or the benefits
of refinancing; or

That the advertisement is or contains a property assessment or

appraisal.

Including or using any words, phrases, images, or design

characteristics that falsely state or imply that:

The source of the advertisement is the government or the
consumer’s current lender or is affiliated with the government
or the consumer’s current lender; or

The advertisement is anything other than an advertisement for a

mortgage;

Including or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or

design characteristics:

1.

2.

3.

“Benefit announcement”
“Eligibility advisory”

“Eligibility notice”
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

“Eligibility status”

“Expiration notice”

“Pending authorization”

“VA loan department”

“VA loan representative”

“VA loan specialist”

“VA program customer support”

“VA specialist”

“Waiting period”

The IRS signature year style (two digits in white or outlined
text and the other two digits in black text);

The format of an IRS form, including Form W-2, or a
substantially similar format; or

Any VA or United States Department of Defense (DOD) logo,
or a logo, emblem, or other representation that resembles—or
that a consumer could reasonably interpret as—a VA or DOD

logo;

Representing that a consumer has been “prequalified” or “preselected”

for any mortgage, unless (a) Respondent has, based on information

about the creditworthiness of the individual consumer to whom the
150.

advertisement was addressed and all other relevant factors (which
may include, for example, the value of the potentially mortgaged
property and the consumer’s equity in that property), made a specific
determination that the consumer is likely to qualify for the advertised
mortgage under the precise terms stated in the advertisement; and (b)
Respondent maintains documentation of such determination; and
Stating the name of the consumer’s current or prior lender, unless the
current or prior lender is Prime Choice, or unless stating the name of

the current or prior lender is otherwise required by law.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or

offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following

affirmative actions:

a.

Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and implied
claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement that states a cash-out
amount for a cash-out refinance mortgage and a monthly payment
amount only for the portion of that mortgage used to obtain that cash-

out amount, Respondent must disclose Clearly and Prominently: (1)
that obtaining the stated cash-out amount requires the consumer to
refinance the entire amount of the consumer’s existing mortgage with
a new loan purchased from Respondent, and (2) the total monthly
payment amount(s) for such a refinanced mortgage.

If Respondent screens or selects consumers to receive any direct-mail
mortgage advertisements based on consumers’ credit scores or credit
tiers, those advertisements may only contain specific credit terms that
are available to consumers with a credit score equal to or less than the
credit score or credit tier that was used to identify the recipient
consumers.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement, if the advertisement states
an interest rate or APR that is available only to consumers whose
credit scores are above a threshold number, that fact (including the
applicable credit score threshold) must be disclosed Clearly and
Prominently on the same side of the advertisement as the advertised
interest rate or APR.

If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the
amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minimum:
The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

The amount of each payment that will apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;
The period during which each payment will apply;

The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and
The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate

may be increased after consummation, that fact.

In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,

Respondent must:

State, Clearly and Prominently, that the product is an

“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
2020-BCFP-0006 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 46 of 64

advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” before the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

For each simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based
on an index and margin, base the rate on an index value in
effect on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior,
and disclose the index and margin; and

State that more information about adjustable rate mortgages is
available at https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201401_cfpb_

booklet_charm.pdf.

 

Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be

made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under

Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, must be:

1.

In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments
triggering the required disclosures;

Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

Otherwise compliant with Regulation Z, as applicable.
151.

VIL.
Advertising Review

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the following

affirmative actions:

a. Respondent’s Advertising Compliance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it is
compliant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims
made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

b. Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is
mailed to consumers, the Advertising Compliance Official must
review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any
envelope, mailer, and enclosures—to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,

expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is disseminated. This requirement
applies whether the set is mailed as a single batch or in multiple
batches. It also applies whether the set is mailed out at a single time or
over a period.

The Advertising Compliance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement
includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availability of the advertised rate(s). If the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all
inputs assumed when calculating that number. If the advertisement
states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
include any materials used to determine the availability of that

amount.
152.

153.

d. The Advertising Compliance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VIII.
Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 45 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a

comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s

mortgage advertising complies with all applicable Federal consumer
financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent
Order; and
b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination

of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
154.

155.

156.

PRESS
ae SES
See

the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 15 days.
After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
MONETARY PROVISIONS
IX.
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $645,000 to the Bureau.
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in

compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
157.

158.

159.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil
money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory

monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
160.

161.

162.

ALOAaH
Liye
See

penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

X.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must

furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
163.

164.

used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
XI.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or

address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
165.

166.

167.

PERE SER ES
ae eb?
Set OA

before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the

development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. Identify any businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner,
or that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their
names, telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

C. Describe the activities of any such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 165 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to

the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report
168.

PRESS
ae SES
See

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by Respondent’s executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;
Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;
Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an
explanation of why any such instances occurred; and
Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,

sworn under penalty of perjury.
169.

170.

171.

172.

APOE
ae eh Se
SPU

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members (if any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was

delivered through that date under Paragraphs 169—70 and a copy of all
173.

signed and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order
under Paragraph 171.
XIII.

Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12 C.F.R.
§ 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four
months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated the applicable
commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit

product, the following evidence of compliance with the MAP Rule:

a. Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well
as sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

b. | Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to

consumers; and
174.

175.

176.

Cc. Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.

Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage
advertisements disseminated within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least
5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 151(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retain the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,

including any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
177.

178.

179.

PERE SER ES
ae eb?
Set OA

behalf; and
C. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received

directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses

to those complaints or requests.
Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 176 for at
least 5 years after creation of the record.
Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraphs 173-77
available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Prime
Choice Funding, Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP- 0006,” and send them by
overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement_ Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552
180.

181.

182.

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.
183.

184.

185.

186.

Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.

XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as

described in Paragraph 187. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
187.

188.

189.

ALOAaH
Liye
See

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 174—75 and 177—78 of this Consent

Order will terminate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired.
190.

191.

192.

193.

All other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from
the Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete

agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
2020-BCFP-0006 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 64 of 64

representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

194. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this 2 ‘day of July, 2020.

 

Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

64
