UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77145 / February 16, 2016

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 3743 / February 16, 2016

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17118

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-

In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
PTC INC., EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER

 

 

I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against PTC Inc. (“PTC” or “Respondent’).

I.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the entry
of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set
forth below.

Hil.

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds' that:

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
Summary

1. This matter concerns violations of the anti-bribery, books and records and internal
accounting controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by PTC. From at
least 2006 into 2011, two wholly-owned PTC subsidiaries (collectively, “PTC-China’”) provided
improper payments totaling nearly $1.5 million to government officials (“Chinese government
officials” or “officials”) who were employed by Chinese state owned entities (“SOEs”) that were
PTC customers. These payments were made to obtain or retain business from the SOEs.
Specifically, PT'C-China provided non-business travel, primarily sightseeing and tourist activities,
as well as improper gifts and entertainment, to the Chinese government officials. PTC earned
approximately $11.85 million in profits from sales contracts with SOEs whose officials received
the improper payments.

2. PTC-China made these improper payments in two primary ways: 1) by providing at
least $1,179,912 to third party agents, disguised as commission payments or sub-contracting fees,
which were then used to pay for non-business related foreign travel for Chinese government
officials; and 2) by allowing its sales staff to provide Chinese government officials with gifts and
excessive entertainment of over $274,313. The payments were recorded as legitimate
commissions and business expenses in PTC-China’s books and records, when in fact they were
improper payments designed to benefit the Chinese government officials. PTC-China’s books and
records were consolidated into PTC’s books and records, thereby causing PTC’s books and records
to be inaccurate. PTC failed to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls sufficient to prevent and detect these improper payments that occurred over several years.

Respondent

3. PTC Inc. (formerly Parametric Technology Corporation) is a Massachusetts
corporation with its headquarters in Needham, Massachusetts. PTC designs, manufactures, and
sells Product Lifecycle Management Systems software (1.e., software that manages a company’s
products from design through manufacturing and distribution) and maintains operations in the
Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific, including China. PTC manages its China operations through
two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Parametric Technology (Shanghai) Software Company Limited
and Parametric Technology (Hong Kong) Limited. PTC’s common stock is registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the NASDAQ Global
Select Market (ticker: PTC).

Facts
A. PTC Exercised Substantial Control Over PTC-China
4. During the relevant period, although PTC-China was structured as two entities, it
conducted business as a single unit. Until July 2008, all China local employees were assigned to

the Hong Kong subsidiary; in August 2008, they all became direct employees of the Shanghai

2
subsidiary. And throughout this period, both the Hong Kong and Shanghai subsidiaries shared
common directors, all of whom were senior members or officers of PTC’s legal and finance
departments.

5. PTC exercised substantial control over PTC-China. The employees of PTC’s
subsidiaries, including PTC-China, had global functional reporting lines to PTC, rather than an
independent management structure. The functional reporting lines provided PTC with control over
PTC-China’s activities, including its sales process. PT'C-China’s senior sales staff reported to a
Division Vice President of Sales, who was a PTC employee based in China. For most of the
relevant period, this Division Vice President either reported to the General Manager of the Asia
Pacific Region, or directly to PTC’s Executive Vice President of Sales, who was based in
Needham, Massachusetts. For other functions, including sales operations and global services,
various PTC-China employees reported up to PTC employees, both based in China and the United
States. Consistent with the functional reporting structure, PTC often moved its key employees to
various subsidiaries throughout the world.

6. For the sales, sales operations, and global services functions, the review of
proposed transactions followed a hierarchical approach through PTC-China and, if needed, to
employees at other PTC entities, including the parent company. PTC employees approved pricing
discounts above certain thresholds for PTC-China and reviewed certain PTC-China contract
documents. PTC, not PTC-China, was the counter party on most of the contracts with PTC-
China’s SOE customers.

7. Further, PTC set the business and financial goals for its subsidiaries, including
PTC-China. Each PTC function (including sales, marketing and finance) received a worldwide
budget from PTC to allocate among its various subsidiaries. PTC also set regional sales targets
(1.e., for the Pacific Rim, in which China was included) and had regional managers who allocated
the sales targets among the countries and subsidiaries.

B. PTC-China Used Business Partners to Pay Bribes to
Chinese Government Officials

8. For sales to Chinese SOEs, PTC-China routinely hired third parties — called
“business partners” — both to find deals, for which PTC-China paid a commission or “success fee,”
as well as to provide information technology and other services, which PTC-China subcontracted
to the business partner. Business partners were generally Chinese companies, purportedly with
specific knowledge of, and relationships with, PTC-China’s customers.

9. PTC employees knew that many of PTC-China’s customers were SOEs whose
employees were Chinese government officials. Certain business partners had long standing
relationships with these Chinese government officials. Generally, the business partners provided
PTC-China with lobbying or “influence services” (i.e., arranging seminars and meetings with
officials of the SOEs) and information technology services. Often the Chinese government
officials chose the business partner with whom they wished to collaborate.

3
10. Despite the routine use of business partners in many deals, and the risk of
corruption inherent in paying for influence services, PTC failed to conduct a sufficient review of
the business capabilities or ethics programs of these business partners.

11. Senior PTC-China sales staff had wide discretion in setting the fee arrangements
with business partners. PTC-China did not have a fixed success fee arrangement with its business
partners, instead negotiating the fee for each particular deal. When PTC-China initially engaged
the business partner, its sales team generally agreed to a price range for the business partners’
commission — from as low as 15% to as high as 30% of the contract price — if the deal was
successful. PTC-China’s senior sales staff finalized the commission with the business partner at or
about the time a deal closed. PTC-China’s senior sales staff reported to a PTC employee who had
authority over the commission approval process.

12. For information technology and other subcontracted services, PT'C-China relied on
sign offs provided by the SOE’s officials as evidence that the agreed upon services had been
performed. Once the business partner and/or the Chinese government officials confirmed that the
business partner had completed the services, PTC-China made the agreed-upon payments to the
business partner. PTC-China did not independently verify the extent to which, if at all, the
business partners in fact performed the subcontracted services.

13. Beginning in 2005, PTC-China recorded the commission and information
technology subcontracting payments to business partners as “Complete Outsourced Deals” or
“COD” expenses. After 2008, PTC-China began paying commissions to business partners as it
received customer payment on the deals. PTC-China sales staff tracked the payments to business
partners on spreadsheets that they kept on their computers, and which were separate from PTC-
China’s electronic accounting records.

14. During contract negotiations with SOEs, Chinese government officials, in
conjunction with a business partner, often requested that PT'C-China provide them with overseas
“training,” which involved primarily tourist and sightseeing visits. The three parties would settle
on a travel budget and the Chinese government officials would typically agree to “gross up” the
SOE’s contract price by the amount of the anticipated travel costs. PTC-China sales staff itemized
the overseas travel costs in the initial contract documents for approval by senior PTC-China sales
staff. Once approved, however, PTC-China employees removed the line item for overseas travel
from the final contract documents that were signed by PTC and the SOEs. Instead, the funds
budgeted for the overseas travel were disguised by PTC-China personnel as COD expenses related
to success fees or subcontracting payments for business partners.

15. Because PTC-China employees negotiated success fees with a business partner on a
deal by deal basis, they were able to include the costs of the overseas travel as part of a business
partner’s fees without raising suspicion. In turn, the business partner used part of its success fee to
pay for the overseas sightseeing trips. Alternatively, PTC-China employees sometimes disguised
the overseas travel payments as a payment purportedly for providing information technology or

4
other subcontracted services. The business partner (or customer) then provided PTC-China with
documents indicating that it had performed the subcontracted services, and used a part of the
subcontract fee to pay for the Chinese government officials’ sightseeing trips. For certain more
expensive trips, PTC-China employees spread the overseas travel payments over several contracts,
each with its own COD budget. Because many deals with SOEs involved long term contracts that
took several years to complete, the actual sightseeing trip sometimes occurred up to two to three
years after the deal was negotiated.

16. PTC-China sales staff tracked on spreadsheets kept separate from PTC-China’s
regularly maintained books and records the overseas travel payments made by business partners to
or for the benefit of PTC’s SOE customers. Senior PTC-China sales staff used the spreadsheets to
understand the composition of, and negotiate, the success and other fees with the business partners.

C. PTC-China Improperly Funded Leisure Travel for Chinese
Government Officials

17. PTC-China employees and the business partners typically arranged the overseas
sightseeing trips in conjunction with a visit to a PTC facility. Most often, PT'C-China sales staff
arranged for Chinese government officials to visit PTC’s corporate headquarters in Massachusetts,
for PTC to market and demonstrate the company’s products and services. The trips typically
consisted of one day of business activities at PTC’s facility, followed or preceded by additional
days of sightseeing visits that lacked any business purpose, all of which were paid for by the
business partners using funds from their grossed up success fees and subcontracting payments.
Some PTC employees in the United States generally understood that SOE officials were spending
additional days in the country, including for tourist activities. And certain PTC employees based
in China were aware that PTC-China employees were accompanying Chinese government officials
to tourist destinations.

18. Typical travel destinations in the United States included New York, Las Vegas, San
Diego, Los Angeles, and Honolulu, and involved guided tours, golfing, and other leisure activities.
PTC-China sales staff usually accompanied the Chinese government officials on these trips. The
Chinese government officials who went on the trips in turn were often signatories on the purchase
agreements with PTC.

19. Examples of these overseas trips are described below:

e In April 2008, six officials of an SOE (“SOE Customer A”) and a senior PTC-
China salesperson visited PT'C’s Massachusetts office for a one-day meeting. The
PTC-China salesperson further arranged for a business partner to pay $51,495 for
sightseeing visits to New York, Boston, Los Angeles and Honolulu for the Chinese
government officials (and himself). The ten day trip included lodging at five star
hotels; tours of Rockefeller Center, the Statue of Liberty, the United Nations, and
the Empire State Building, along with tickets to a professional basketball game
while in New York; tours of MIT, Harvard, and Faneuil Hall while in Boston; a

5
tour of the Grand Canyon while in Las Vegas; a city tour while in Los Angeles; and
a city tour, a tour of Pearl Harbor, a visit to the Polynesian Cultural Center, golfing,
and a sunset dinner cruise while in Honolulu. As a result, during 2008, PTC and
PTC-China received an improper benefit of at least three contracts, signed by PTC,
worth $1.2 million, from SOE Customer A.

In December 2007, during contract negotiations with an SOE (“SOE Customer B”),
a PTC-China employee agreed to provide its officials with over $84,000 for future
overseas travel expenses. The PTC-China employee emailed his supervisor at
PTC-China the terms of a deal with SOE Customer B that included $84,429 for the
overseas travel, which he initially recorded as “overseas training.” Later, the PTC-
China employee disguised “overseas training” as COD costs, stating: “I replace the
‘oversea training’ in the sheet to the ‘CODI1’ .... As you know, the customers just
want sightseeing instead of oversea training.” Subsequently, the PTC-China
employee disguised the overseas travel costs as COD expenses in three deals,
signed by PTC, worth nearly $1.7 million, with SOE Customer B.

PTC-China provided SOE Customer B with the agreed-upon overseas travel in
2010, when it arranged for nine of its officials to visit PTC’s Massachusetts office
for a one-day meeting. PTC-China employees concurrently had a business partner
provide these Chinese government officials with sightseeing visits to New York,
Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, and Honolulu, including among the activities,
tours of West Point Academy, Rockefeller Center, and the Statue of Liberty while
in New York; Universal Studios while in Los Angeles; and Pearl Harbor while in
Honolulu.

In December 2007, while negotiating a $3.4 million deal with an SOE (“SOE
Customer C”’), a PTC-China salesperson emailed his supervisors at PTC-China
contract documents that included overseas travel expenses of $173,400. In July
2008, while negotiating a $1.2 million deal with SOE Customer C, another PTC-
China salesperson emailed the same supervisors contract documents that included
overseas travel expenses of $104,000. When completing both deals, PTC-China
employees excluded the overseas travel expenses from the final contract documents
that were signed by PTC and SOE Customer C.

PTC-China provided SOE Customer C with the agreed-upon overseas travel in May
2010, when it arranged for five of its officials to visit PTC’s Massachusetts office
for a one-day meeting. PTC-China employees concurrently had a business partner
provide these Chinese government officials with a sightseeing visit to New York,
Las Vegas, and Los Angeles, including among other activities, tours of the United
Nations, the Statue of Liberty, and West Point while in New York; the Grand
Canyon while in Las Vegas; and Universal Studios while in Los Angeles.
e In May 2010, a PTC-China salesperson accompanied two officials of an SOE
(“SOE Customer D”) on a visit to PT'C’s Massachusetts office for a one-day
meeting. PTC-China sales staff concurrently had a PTC-China business partner
provide these Chinese government officials with sightseeing visits to New York,
Boston, Atlanta, Las Vegas, and Los Angeles, including among other activities,
tours of the Grand Canyon while in Las Vegas; Universal Studios while in Los
Angeles; and shopping excursions. In July 2010, another PTC-China salesperson
accompanied seven officials of SOE Customer D on a second visit to PTC’s U.S.
offices. Once again, PTC-China sales staff had one of its business partners provide
these Chinese government officials with sightseeing visits to New York, Boston,
New London, Connecticut, Washington, D.C., Las Vegas, San Diego and Los
Angeles, including among other activities, tours of Niagara Falls, the Statue of
Liberty, the Empire State Building, and the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum
Complex while in New York; the Submarine Force Library & Museum while in
New London; the Grand Canyon while in Las Vegas; Universal Studios while in
Los Angeles; and shopping excursions. These trips influenced SOE Customer D to
purchase over $9 million of products from PTC and PTC-China.

20. Overall, from 2006 into 2011, PTC-China, through its business partners, paid at
least $1,179,912 to fund at least 10 trips for Chinese government officials that included significant
non-business travel. The costs of these trips were improperly recorded in PTC’s books and records
as COD or business partner related commissions or subcontracting payments, without any
indication that they were primarily for sightseeing and other non-business related activities. PTC
improperly profited by at least $11,858,000 from contracts obtained from the SOEs whose
government officials participated on these trips.

D. PTC-China Improperly Provided Officials of SOEs
with Gifts and Excessive Entertainment

21. From 2009 through 2011, PT'C-China sales staff corruptly provided at least
$274,313 in improper gifts and entertainment directly to Chinese government officials. The value
of the gifts and entertainment generally ranged from $50 to $600, and often included small
electronics (e.g., cell phones, iPods, and GPS systems), gift cards, wine, and clothing. PT'C-China
sales staff’s long standing practice of providing the gifts to Chinese government officials was done
at least in part to obtain or retain SOE business.

22. By providing these gifts, PTC-China violated PTC’s corporate governance and
internal controls policies. These policies included: $50 monetary limits on the provision of gifts
and business entertainment to government officials; requiring PTC-China sales staff to obtain pre-
approvals for business expenses over $500; and requiring that PTC-China sales staff document the
date, place, attendees, and purpose of business entertainment and the recipient. These gifts were
improperly recorded as legitimate business expenses.
E. PTC-China Failed to Devise and Maintain a System
of Internal Accounting Controls

23. From at least 2006 through 2011, PTC failed to devise and maintain an adequate
internal accounting controls system to address the potential FCPA problems posed by its
ownership of, and control over, PTC-China. Notably, during 2006, 2008, and 2010, PTC
investigated compliance issues at PT'C-China, including possible corruption involving its business
partners. However, PTC failed to identify and stop the ongoing and systemic illicit payments to
Chinese government officials by PTC-China personnel as described above and did not undertake
effective remedial actions.

24. Despite these compliance issues, PTC failed to undertake periodic comprehensive
risk assessments for PT'C-China and to ensure that its internal accounting controls procedures were
suited to PTC-China’s particular circumstances (in particular, its ongoing dealings with Chinese
government officials). PTC’s Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery policies for the provision of
business entertainment were vague (1.e., stating that employees should use “good taste” and
consider the “customary business standards in the community” when providing business
entertainment) and not risk-based to China. And PTC did not have independent compliance staff
or an internal audit function that had authority to review and test its internal accounting controls
processes or intervene into management decisions and, if appropriate, take remedial actions.

25. As aresult, PTC failed to identify and correct corporate governance and compliance
breakdowns at PTC-China. Notably, PTC failed to: properly vet PT'C-China’s business partners,
which played a significant role for PTC-China as described above; police for corrupt payments by
its business partners; monitor and supervise PTC-China’s senior sales staff to ensure that they
enforced anti-corruption policies and kept accurate records concerning gifts to Chinese government
officials; properly scrutinize travel related expenses to prevent reimbursement for employees’
airfare, lodging, and other expenses that were either personal in nature or gifts for customers; limit
the number or total value of gifts PTC-China’s sales staff could provide to any single individual or
entity; and provide sufficient FCPA training for its employees.

Legal Standards and Violations

26. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of the Exchange Act or any regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or would
be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would
contribute to such violation.

Violations of the Anti-Bribery Provisions of the FCPA

27. Under Section 30A of the Exchange Acct it is unlawful for any issuer, officer,
director, employee, or agent of such issuer or any stockholder thereof acting on behalf of the issuer
to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in

8
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or
offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any foreign
official or any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of value will be
offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official for the purposes of (1)
influencing any act or decision of such foreign official in his official capacity, (11) inducing such
foreign official to do or omit to do any act in violation of the lawful duty of such official, or (i11)
securing any improper advantage in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business for
or with, or directing business to, any person. [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1].

28. PTC-China used third party business partners to pay bribes in the form of travel,
gifts and entertainment to Chinese government officials to obtain and retain business. PTC
exercised substantial control over PTC-China by, among other things, creating functional reporting
lines, approving PTC-China’s key decisions, and setting PTC-China’s business and financial goals.
PTC entered into contracts directly with the SOEs as a result of the bribes paid through PTC-
China’s business partners, and earned significant income from these contracts. Under applicable
agency principles, PTC-China and its employees acted as agents of PTC during the relevant time
and were acting within the scope of their authority and for the benefit of PTC when participating in
the bribery scheme.

Violations of the Recordkeeping and Internal
Accounting Controls Provisions of the FCPA

29. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to make and
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A).

30. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires reporting companies to devise
and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances
that the transactions: (1) are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific
authorization; and (ii) are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B).

31. PTC-China made payments, directly and indirectly, to Chinese government
officials that were improperly recorded on its books and records as legitimate commissions and
business expenses. The books and records of PTC-China were consolidated into PTC’s books and
records. As a result of the misconduct of its China subsidiaries, PTC failed to make and keep
books and records which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and
the disposition of its assets as required by Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Acct.

32. The improper payments by PTC-China described above took place over several
years. During the relevant period, PTC failed to implement an adequate system of internal
controls, including an appropriate FCPA compliance and training program at PTC-China, which
was commensurate with the risks of doing business in China, and particularly the risks of

9
businesses that regularly sold products to SOEs. Accordingly, in violation of Section 13(b)(2)(B)
of the Exchange Act, PTC failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that it maintained accountability for its assets, and that
its transactions were executed in accordance with management’s authorization.

PTC’s Self-Disclosure and Remedial Efforts

33. PTC only discovered the improper payments to or for the benefit of Chinese
government officials in 2011, while investigating complaints concerning a senior PTC-China
salesperson. Upon learning this information, PTC, with the oversight of the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors, engaged independent counsel and an independent forensic consulting firm
to undertake an investigation. PTC voluntarily self-reported the results of its internal investigation
to the Commission and responded to information requests from the Commission staff. PTC did
not, however, uncover or disclose the full scope and extent of PTC-China’s FCPA issues until
2014.

34. As part of its internal review and investigation, PTC undertook significant remedial
measures including terminating the senior staff at PTC-China implicated in the FCPA violations.
PTC also revised its pre-existing compliance program, updated and enhanced its financial
accounting controls and its compliance protocols and policies worldwide, and implemented
additional specific enhancements in China. These steps included: (1) reviewing and enhancing its
anti-bribery policy, code of ethics, and gifts and entertainment policies to correct previous
deficiencies; (2) establishing a dedicated compliance team, including a chief compliance officer
and a new compliance director in China; (3) expanding its other compliance resources in China,
including hiring a new vice president of finance for Asia and adding additional legal staff in China;
(4) hiring a new management team in China, including a new China President; (5) enhancing its
FCPA training for employees; (6) severing its relationships with the business partners that were
implicated in the FCPA violations and discontinuing the use of COD partners or business referral
partners generally; (7) implementing a comprehensive due diligence program for all other business
partners that includes a risk-scoring system operated by a third party vendor and that includes
FCPA training as part of the onboarding process; (8) obtaining quarterly anti-corruption
certifications from sales staff; and (9) undertaking periodic compliance audits.

Non-Prosecution Agreement
35. Respondent’s subsidiaries have entered into non-prosecution agreements that
acknowledge responsibility for criminal conduct relating to the findings in the Order. Specifically,

Respondent’s subsidiaries acknowledge responsibility for violating Section 104A of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3.

10
Non-Imposition of a Civil Penalty

36. Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty
based upon its payment of a $14,540,000 criminal fine as part of Respondent’s subsidiaries’
settlement with the United States Department of Justice.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent PTC’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent PTC cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A)
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.

B. Respondent shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement
of $11,858,000, which represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described herein, and
prejudgment interest of $1,764,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and 31
U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying PTC
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the

11
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul G. Block, Assistant Director, Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act Unit, Boston Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 33
Arch Street, Suite 2300, Boston, Massachusetts 02110.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

12
