Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges KBR and Halliburton for FCPA Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2009-23

Washington, D.C., Feb. 11, 2009 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today announced settlements with KBR, Inc. and Halliburton Co. to resolve
SEC charges that KBR subsidiary Kellogg Brown & Root LLC bribed Nigerian
government officials over a 10-year period, in violation of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA), in order to obtain construction contracts. The SEC also
charged that KBR and Halliburton, KBR's former parent company, engaged in
books and records violations and internal controls violations related to the
bribery.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 20897A
®» SEC Complaint

 

KBR and Halliburton have agreed to pay $177 million in disgorgement to
settle the SEC's charges. Kellogg Brown & Root LLC has agreed to pay a $402
million fine to settle parallel criminal charges brought today by the U.S.
Department of Justice. The sanctions represent the largest combined
settlement ever paid by U.S. companies since the FCPA's inception.

"FCPA violations have been and will continue to be dealt with severely by the
SEC and other law enforcement agencies," said SEC Chairman Mary L.
Schapiro. "Any company that seeks to put greed ahead of the law by making
illegal payments to win business should beware that we are working
vigorously across borders to detect and punish such illicit conduct."

Linda Chatman Thomsen, Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement, said,
"This case demonstrates the close and cooperative working relationships that
have developed in FCPA investigations among the SEC, the U.S. Department
of Justice, and foreign law enforcement agencies and securities regulators."

Antonia Chion, Associate Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement,
added, "The SEC will not tolerate violations of the FCPA, regardless of the
lengths to which public companies will go to structure their corrupt
transactions to avoid detection. Multi-national companies should take heed
that attempting to conceal bribes by funneling them through intermediaries
or offshore entities will not be successful."

Acting Assistant Attorney General Rita M. Glavin of the Criminal Division at
the Department of Justice said, "Today's guilty plea by KBR ends one chapter
in the Department's long-running investigation of corruption in the award of
$6 billion in construction contracts in Nigeria. This bribery scheme involved
both senior foreign government officials and KBR corporate executives who
took actions to insulate themselves from the reach of U.S. law enforcement.
The successful prosecution of KBR, and its agreement to pay a more than
$400 million fine, demonstrates that no one is above the law, and that the
Department is determined to seek penalties that are commensurate with, and
will deter, this kind of serious criminal misconduct."

Kellogg Brown & Root LLC's predecessor entities (Kellogg, Brown & Root, Inc.
and The M.W. Kellogg Company) were members of a four-company joint
venture that won the construction contracts worth more than $6 billion. In
September 1998, Halliburton acquired Dresser Industries, Inc., the parent
company of The M.W. Kellogg Company.

The SEC alleges that beginning as early as 1994, members of the joint
venture determined that it was necessary to pay bribes to officials within the
Nigerian government in order to obtain the construction contracts. The former
CEO of the predecessor entities, Albert "Jack" Stanley, and others involved in
the joint venture met with high-ranking Nigerian government officials and
their representatives on at least four occasions to arrange the bribe
payments. To conceal the illicit payments, the joint venture entered into sham
contracts with two agents, one based in the United Kingdom and one based in
Japan, to funnel money to Nigerian officials.

The SEC's complaint alleges that the internal controls of Halliburton, the
parent company of the KBR predecessor entities from 1998 to 2006, failed to
detect or prevent the bribery, and that Halliburton records were falsified as a
result of the bribery scheme. In September 2008, Stanley pleaded guilty to
bribery and related charges and entered into a settlement with the SEC.

The SEC alleges that officials of the joint venture formed a "cultural
committee" to decide how to carry out the bribery scheme. The committee
decided to use the United Kingdom agent to make payments to high-ranking
Nigerian officials and to use the Japanese agent to make payments to lower-
ranking Nigerian officials. As the joint venture was paid for work on the
construction project, the joint venture in turn made payments to the Japanese
agent and to the Swiss and Monaco bank accounts of the United Kingdom
agent. The total payments to the two agents exceeded $180 million. After
receiving the money, the United Kingdom agent made substantial payments
to accounts controlled by Nigerian government officials, and beginning in
2002 paid $5 million in cash to a Nigerian political party.

The SEC's complaint further alleges that, after the Dresser acquisition,
Halliburton failed to devise and maintain adequate internal controls to govern
the use of foreign sales agents and failed to maintain and enforce the internal
controls it had. Halliburton's due diligence investigation of the United
Kingdom agent failed to detect or prevent the bribery scheme. Halliburton
conducted no due diligence on the Japanese agent. As a result of the scheme,
numerous Halliburton records contained false information relating to the
payments to the agents.

Without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, KBR and Halliburton have
consented to the entry of a court order that (i) permanently enjoins KBR from
violating the anti-bribery and records falsification provisions in Sections 30A,
13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and from
aiding and abetting violations of the record-keeping and internal control
provisions in Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act; (ii)
permanently enjoins Halliburton from violating the record-keeping and
internal control provisions of the Exchange Act; (iii) orders the companies to
disgorge $177 million in ill-gotten profits derived from the scheme; (iv)
imposes an independent monitor for KBR for a period of three years to review
its FCPA compliance program, and (v) imposes an independent consultant for
Halliburton to review its policies and procedures as they relate to compliance
with the FCPA. The proposed settlements are subject to the court's approval.

In the related criminal proceeding announced today, the U.S. Department of
Justice filed a criminal action against Kellogg Brown & Root LLC, charging one
count of conspiring to violate the FCPA and four counts of violating the anti-
bribery provisions of the FCPA. Kellogg Brown & Root LLC has pled guilty to
each of these counts. Under its plea agreement, Kellogg Brown & Root LLC is
required to pay a criminal fine of $402 million and to retain a monitor to
review and evaluate KBR's policies and procedures as they relate to
compliance with the FCPA.

The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Department of
Justice, Fraud Section; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and foreign
authorities in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas. The Commission's
investigation is continuing.

HH#H
For more information, contact:

Antonia Chion
Associate Director, SEC's Division of Enforcement
(202) 551-4842

Kara Novaco Brockmeyer
Assistant Director, SEC's Division of Enforcement
(202) 551-4767

HEHE

http://www. sec.gov/news/press/2009/2009-23.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 02/17/2009
