Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Italian Company and Dutch Subsidiary in
Scheme Bribing Nigerian Officials With Carloads of Cash

ENI and Snamprogetti to Pay $365 Million to Settle FCPA Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2010-119

Washington, D.C., July 7, 2010 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today charged Italian company ENI, S.p.A. and its former Dutch subsidiary
Snamprogetti Netherlands B.V. with multiple violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA) in a bribery scheme that included deliveries of cash-filled
briefcases and vehicles to Nigerian government officials to win construction
contracts.

Snamprogetti and ENI will jointly pay $125 million to settle the SEC's charges,
and Snamprogetti will pay an additional $240 million penalty to settle
separate criminal proceedings announced today by the U.S. Department of
Justice.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 21588
» SEC Complaint

 

ENI and Snamprogetti are the latest to be charged in the decade-long
Nigerian bribery scheme conducted by a joint venture of companies that also
included Technip and KBR, Inc., both named in previous SEC enforcement
actions. Technip, KBR and its former parent Halliburton Company paid a
combined $917 million to settle FCPA charges. The $365 million to be paid by
ENI and Snamprogetti brings the total sanctions against the companies
involved in the scheme to more than $1.28 billion.

According to the SEC's complaint against ENI and Snamprogetti, filed today in
federal district court in Houston, senior executives at Snamprogetti and the
other joint venture companies authorized the hiring of two agents, a U.K.
solicitor and a Japanese trading company, through which more than $180
million in bribes were funneled to Nigerian government officials to obtain
several contracts to build liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities on Bonny
Island, Nigeria. The Nigerian government exercised majority control over the
company that awarded the contracts — Nigeria LNG Ltd.

"This elaborate bribery scheme featured sham intermediaries, Swiss bank
accounts, and carloads of cash as everyone involved made a concerted effort
to cover their tracks," said Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC's Division of
Enforcement. "But the billion-plus dollars in sanctions paid by these
companies show that ultimately there is no hiding or profiting from bribery."

Antonia Chion, Associate Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement,
added, "In the three settlements, the joint venture companies disgorge their
$400 million in profits from the illicit contracts, the largest combined
disgorgement amount ever in an FCPA violation."

The SEC's complaint alleges that senior sales executives at the joint venture
companies formed a "cultural committee" to consider how to implement and
hide the bribery scheme through sham consulting and services contracts with
subcontractors or vendors. After Nigeria LNG awarded the joint venture
companies a $2.2 billion LNG-related construction contract in December 1995,
the companies sent a total of $60 million to the U.K. agent's Swiss bank
account over the next 52 months. The U.K. agent transferred the money to
accounts owned or controlled by high-ranking Nigerian government officials.

The SEC alleges that following a change in Nigerian government in 1999,
representatives from the joint venture companies traveled to Nigeria to meet
a high-ranking government official to continue the scheme. The official
confirmed that the U.K. agent was the correct intermediary, and also
appointed his own representative to negotiate the bribe amount. A senior
officer from Snamprogetti and others from the joint venture met with the
Nigerian official's representative in London and negotiated an amount of
$32.5 million to be delivered through the U.K. agent. Days after the London
meeting, Nigeria LNG awarded a contract to the joint venture companies for
$1.2 billion.

The SEC alleges that in 2002 and 2003, the U.K. agent used a subcontractor
on the Nigeria LNG project to transfer millions of dollars to a Nigerian
government official for the benefit of a Nigerian political party. The
subcontractor personally hand-delivered U.S. cash in briefcases to the
Nigerian official in a hotel room in Abuja, Nigeria. The subcontractor also
delivered the bribes to the Nigerian official in local Nigerian currency, the
Naira. In these instances, because the Naira was too bulky to deliver by hand,
the cash was loaded into a vehicle for delivery to the Nigerian official.

The SEC's complaint also alleges that ENI failed to ensure that its former
subsidiary, Snamprogetti, complied with ENI's internal controls concerning the
use of agents, and that the books and records of both companies were
falsified as a result of the bribery scheme. After ENI became a U.S. issuer in
1995, it became subject to the FCPA, including the requirement to create and
maintain adequate internal controls.

Without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, Snamprogetti has
consented to the entry of a court order permanently enjoining it from violating
the anti-bribery and recordkeeping and internal controls provisions in Sections
30A and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 13b2-1, and
ENI has consented to the entry of a court order permanently enjoining it from
violating the recordkeeping and internal controls provisions in Sections 13(b)
(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. Snamprogetti and ENI also
consented to the entry of court orders that require them, jointly and severally,
to pay $125 million in disgorgement. The proposed settlements are subject to
court approval.

In the related criminal proceeding announced today, the U.S. Department of
Justice filed a criminal action against Snamprogetti, charging one count of
conspiring to violate the FCPA and one count of aiding and abetting violations
of the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Snamprogetti has entered into a
deferred prosecution agreement with the DO) and agreed to pay a criminal
penalty of $240 million.

The SEC's investigation was conducted by Kara Brockmeyer, Robert Wilson,
Ansu Banerjee, and Stanley Cichinski. The SEC acknowledges the assistance
of the U.S. Department of Justice, Fraud Section; the Federal Bureau of
Investigation; and foreign authorities in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Antonia Chion
Associate Director, SEC Division of Enforcement
(202) 551-4842

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-119.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 07/07/2010
