UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

 

HOUSTON DIVISION

§
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, §
§
Plaintiff, §

§ Civil Action No. 4:10-cv-2414
VS. §

§ COMPLAINT

ENI, S.p.A. and §
§
SNAMPROGETTI NETHERLANDS B.V., §
§
Defendants. §
§

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission” alleges:
SUMMARY

1. This action arises from multiple violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (the “FCPA”’) of the federal securities laws by Defendants ENI, S.p.A.
(“ENT”) and its former indirect subsidiary Snamprogetti Netherlands B.V.
(“Snamprogetti’).

2. Between at least 1995 and 2004, senior executives at Snamprogetti, among
others, devised and implemented a scheme to bribe Nigerian government officials to
assist in obtaining multiple contracts worth over $6 billion to build liquefied natural gas
(“LNG”) production facilities on Bonny Island, Nigeria. A four-company joint venture,
of which Snamprogetti was a member, won the contracts. To conceal the illicit
payments, Snamprogetti and others, through the joint venture, entered into sham

“consulting” or “services” agreements with intermediaries who would then funnel their
purportedly legitimate fees to Nigerian government officials. Specifically, Snamprogetti
and others, through the joint venture, implemented this scheme by using a Gibraltar shell
company controlled by a solicitor based in the United Kingdom (“the UK Agent’) and a
Japanese trading company (“the Japanese Agent’) as conduits for the bribes.

3. As a result of the scheme, numerous books and records of Snamprogetti
and ENI contained false information relating to, among other things, the UK Agent and
the Japanese Agent, and the payments made to them. Snamprogetti did not conduct due
diligence on the UK Agent or the Japanese Agent and ENI failed to ensure that
Snamprogetti complied with ENI’s policies regarding the use of agents.

4. The Commission brings this action against the Defendants seeking
permanent injunctive relief to prevent future violations of the federal securities laws, and
seeking their ill-gotten gains.

JURISDICTION

5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d),
21(e) and 27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act’) [15 U.S.C.
S§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa].

6. Snamprogetti ,directly or indirectly, made use of the mails and of the
means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce in connection with the acts, practices
and courses of business described in this Complaint.

DEFENDANTS
7. ENI, S.p.A. is an Italian company headquartered in Rome, Italy. In 1995,

ENI registered a class of securities with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 781(b)], and thereby became a U.S. issuer. ENI common
stock and American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

8. Snamprogetti Netherlands B.V. is a Dutch company headquartered in
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Snamprogetti was a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Snamprogetti, S.p.A., an Italian company, which in turn was a wholly-owned subsidiary
of ENI during the relevant time period. In February 2006, ENI sold Snamprogetti, S.p.A.
to Saipem, S.p.A., an Italian company. ENI owns 43% of, and exercises control over,
Saipem, S.p.A.

FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS
Snamprogetti Agrees to Pay Bribes to Obtain Nigeria LNG Contract

9. In the late 1980s, the Nigerian government created Nigeria LNG, Ltd.
(“Nigeria LNG’’) to capture and sell the natural gas associated with oil production in
Nigeria. Nigeria LNG is an entity and instrumentality of the Nigerian government. At
all relevant times, the Nigerian government owned 49% or more of Nigeria LNG and,
through the directors that it appointed to the Board of Directors of Nigeria LNG, the
Nigerian government exercised control over the company. Three multinational
companies own the remainder of Nigeria LNG. Nigerian employees of Nigeria LNG
were detailed from the Nigerian Ministry of Petroleum Resources or the government-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. (““NNPC’”). In the early 1990s, Nigeria LNG
invited bids to construct two LNG “trains” on Bonny Island, Nigeria, estimated to be
worth $1.8 billion. An LNG train is a facility to convert raw natural gas into pure LNG,

ready for delivery to a tanker.
10. In 1990, in order to pursue LNG projects in Nigeria, Snamprogetti formed
a joint venture with three other multinational engineering and construction companies.
The joint venture began to pursue bidding on a construction contract for Nigeria LNG to
build two LNG trains in Nigeria. The joint venture operated through entities incorporated
in Madeira, Portugal.

11. Senior officers and employees at Snamprogetti were involved in the joint
venture and its business in Nigeria from the joint venture’s inception. Each member of
the joint venture had one or more representatives on a steering committee that ran the
joint venture.

12. ENI exercised control and supervision of its wholly-owned indirect
subsidiary Snamprogetti during the relevant time and on certain of its business decisions,
such as Snamprogetti’s entry into the joint venture.

13. From the inception of the joint venture, the sales personnel and other
senior personnel of the four joint venture members believed that it was necessary to pay
bribes to Nigerian government officials to assist in obtaining the LNG construction
contracts. In conjunction with the Japanese Agent, the sales personnel of the joint
venture formed what they called the “cultural committee” to consider how to implement,
but hide, the scheme to pay bribes. The committee members discussed: (1) entering into
sham consulting contracts with various individuals or shell corporations;

(11) “downloading” or “offloading” the payments through subcontractors or vendors; and
(111) entering into phony “services” contracts with the Japanese Agent. Ostensibly, the

consultants or vendors would be retained and paid to perform legitimate services. In
actuality, the consultants or vendors would use the money in whole or in part to make
corrupt payments to Nigerian government officials on behalf of the joint venture.

14. Eventually, the joint venture decided to funnel the payments through two
entities, using the UK Agent to pay high-ranking Nigerian officials, and using the
Japanese Agent to pay lower-level Nigerian officials. These agents were sometimes
referred to as “Cultural Advisors.” The joint venture steering committee approved the
use of the two agents, and the steering committee approved the contracts eventually
entered into between the joint venture and the two agents.

15. In pursuing the bidding with Nigeria LNG, in holding meetings of the
steering committee and the cultural committee, in carrying out the construction contracts,
and in all related matters, Snamprogetti and the other members of the joint venture
directly or indirectly made use of the U.S. mails, and of U.S. common carriers, and of
other instrumentalities of U.S. interstate commerce. Payments made by the joint venture
to the bank accounts of the UK Agent were routed through banks in New York, New
York.

The UK Agent

Trains One and Two

 

16. The joint venture decided to use the UK Agent for Trains One and Two.
Before the joint venture entered into a written contract with the UK Agent,
representatives from the joint venture traveled to Nigeria in November 1994 to meet with
high-ranking Nigerian government officials to discuss the possible use of the UK Agent.
The officials confirmed that the UK Agent was the right conduit. Senior officers at

Snamprogetti knew and approved the purpose of the trip. Thereafter, in March 1995, the
joint venture entered into an agreement to pay the UK Agent $60 million, with the
understanding that a substantial portion of this money would be funneled to Nigerian
officials as bribes.

17. In December 1995, Nigeria LNG awarded the joint venture the contract to
build the first two LNG Trains, for $2.2 billion. The joint venture began construction in
1996 and finished in 2000. As the joint venture received payments for the construction
from Nigeria LNG, it paid the UK Agent. The joint venture sent a total of $60 million to
the UK Agent’s Swiss bank account between December 1995 and March 2000 for use in
making corrupt payments to Nigerian government officials.

18. As the UK Agent received these payments, the UK Agent made systematic
and substantial transfers of money to accounts owned or controlled by one or more high-
ranking Nigerian government officials.

Train Three

19. In 1996, the joint venture began pursuing a contract with Nigeria LNG to
build Train Three on Bonny Island, Nigeria. In May 1997, representatives from the joint
venture traveled to Nigeria to meet with high-ranking Nigerian government officials to
confirm that the UK Agent was still the correct intermediary to use to pay bribes. Senior
officers at Snamprogetti knew and approved the purpose of the trip.

20. In February 1999, following a change in government, representatives from
the joint venture traveled to Nigeria to meet a high-ranking Nigerian government official
who confirmed that the UK Agent was the correct intermediary. The Nigerian official
also appointed his own representative to negotiate the bribe amount. In March 1999, a

senior officer from Snamprogetti and others from the joint venture met with the Nigerian
official’s representative in London to negotiate the amount of the bribes to be paid in
connection with the award of the Train Three LNG contract. Snamprogetti, along with
the other joint venture partners, agreed to pay $32.5 million through the UK Agent.

21. Days after the London meeting, Nigeria LNG awarded the Train Three
contract to the joint venture for $1.2 billion. The joint venture then entered into a new
agreement with the UK Agent for the $32.5 million negotiated at the London meeting.
Between March 1999 and May 2003, the joint venture paid the UK Agent, directing the
payments to the UK Agent’s bank accounts in Switzerland and Monaco. After receiving
the money, the UK Agent made substantial payments to accounts controlled by one or
more high-ranking Nigerian government officials.

Trains Four and Five

 

22. In approximately 2001, the joint venture discussed the award of the next
series of LNG Trains. In November 2001, representatives from the joint venture again
traveled to Nigeria to meet a high-ranking government official, who confirmed that the
UK Agent was still acceptable to serve as a conduit for the payments and who appointed
his own representative to negotiate the bribe amount.

23. In December 2001, the joint venture entered into another agreement with
the UK Agent in connection with Trains Four and Five for $51 million. In March 2002,
Nigeria LNG awarded the joint venture a $1.6 billion contract to build Trains Four and
Five. Between March 2002 and January 2004, the joint venture paid the UK Agent
$40 million under the sham consulting agreement. After receiving the money, the UK
Agent made substantial transfers of money to one or more high-ranking Nigerian

government officials.
24. Between 2002 and April 30, 2003, the UK Agent used a subcontractor on
the Nigeria LNG project (the “Subcontractor’’) to transfer $5 million to a Nigerian
government official for the benefit of a Nigerian political party. The Subcontractor
official, the UK Agent and the Nigerian government official met in London in June 2002
to discuss the terms of the transfer.

25. Beginning in August 2002, the UK Agent wire transferred $5 million from
money received from the joint venture to a bank account of the Subcontractor in the U.K.
The Subcontractor then transferred this money to a bank account in Nigeria. Thereafter,
as the money came in, the Subcontractor withdrew cash in U.S. dollars or in local
currency and delivered the money to the Nigerian official.

26. On several occasions, the Subcontractor personally hand-delivered
$1 million in U.S. currency in a brief case to the Nigerian official in a hotel room in
Abuja, Nigeria. The Subcontractor delivered the remainder of the $5 million to the
Nigerian official in local Nigerian currency, the Naira. Because the Naira was too bulky
to deliver by hand, the Subcontractor loaded the cash into vehicles, which were delivered
to the Nigerian official.

The Japanese Agent

27. As alleged above, Snamprogetti and others in the joint venture agreed to
use the Japanese Agent to make corrupt payments to lower-level Nigerian government
officials in connection with the Bonny Island LNG Trains.

28. Between 1996 and 2002, the joint venture entered into three “services”
agreements with the Japanese Agent. Snamprogetti and others authorized and directed

the joint venture to enter into each of the agreements with the Japanese Agent intending
and expecting that the Japanese Agent would use money it received under these
agreements to offer and make corrupt payments to lower-level Nigerian officials to assist
in obtaining the LNG contracts to build Trains One through Five.

29. Between 1996 and June 14, 2004, when the payments ended, the joint
venture paid the Japanese Agent more than $50 million.

Snamprogetti’s Books and Records Contained False Information

30. In numerous joint venture company records, the payments to the UK
Agent and the Japanese Agent were falsely characterized as legitimate “consulting” or
“services” fees when, in fact, they were bribes. Snamprogetti’s business records also
contained the contracts with the UK Agent and the Japanese Agent, which falsely
described the purpose of the contracts in order to make it appear that the agents would
perform legitimate services. These documents were part of Snamprogetti’s business
records and supported Snamprogetti’s financial statements, which were consolidated into
ENI’s financial statements.

ENI’s Internal Controls Failed to Detect, Deter or Prevent Bribery

31. Snamprogetti did not conduct any due diligence on either the UK Agent or
the Japanese Agent. ENI’s policies and procedures governed Snamprogetti’s use of
agents. ENI failed to ensure that Snamprogetti conducted due diligence on agents hired
through joint ventures in which Snamprogetti participated. As a result, ENI’s internal

controls failed to detect, deter or prevent the decades-long bribery scheme.
FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Snamprogetti Violated Section 30A of the Exchange Act
(Anti-Bribery Provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)

32. Paragraphs | through 31 are realleged and incorporated herein by
reference.

33. As described above, Snamprogetti, an agent of a U.S. issuer, made use of
the mails or other means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any
money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value,
to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing their acts or decisions, securing an
improper advantage, or inducing them to use their influence, to assist the issuer in
obtaining or retaining business.

34. By reason of the foregoing, Snamprogetti violated, and unless restrained
and enjoined will continue to violate, Section 30A of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §
78dd-1).

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF

ENI Violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and _13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act
(Company Records and Internal Controls)

35. Paragraphs | through 34 above are realleged and incorporated by
reference herein.

36. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires companies to keep
accurate books, records and accounts which reflect fairly the transactions entered into by

companies and the disposition of its assets.

10
37. Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires companies to devise and maintain a system of
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and to maintain accountability for such assets.

38. By reason of the foregoing, ENI violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A) & (B)].

THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Snamprogetti Violated of Section 13(b)(6)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1
(Company Records and Internal Controls)

39. Paragraphs | through 38 above are realleged and incorporated by
reference herein.

AO. As described above, during the relevant period Snamprogetti knowingly
falsified, and directly or indirectly, caused to be falsified certain books, records, or
accounts that supported the financial statements of ENI, a U.S. issuer, subject to
Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)]. As a result of
Snamprogetti’s conduct, the books and records that supported the financial statements of
ENI falsely reflected the payments to the UK Agent and the Japanese Agent as legitimate
business expenses instead of bribes. By falsifying documents and authorizing the agent
contracts and by failing to conduct any due diligence on the agents, Snamprogetti also
knowingly circumvented certain internal accounting controls of ENI.

41. By reason of the foregoing, Snamprogetti violated Section 13(b)(5) of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5)] and Rule 13b2-1 [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-1].

11
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court:

(1) Enter a final judgment permanently enjoining Snamprogetti from violating
Sections 30A and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1 and 78m(b)(5)]
and Rule 13b2-1 [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-1];

(2) Enter a final judgment permanently enjoining ENI from violating Sections
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) & (B)];

(3) Enter a final judgment ordering Defendants ENI and Snamprogetti, jointly
and severally, to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a result of their illegal
conduct; and

(4) Grant the Commission such other and further relief as is just and
appropriate.

Dated: July 7, 2010 Respectfully submitted,
s/ Mark A. Adler
Mark A. Adler (Attorney-in-charge)
Antonia Chion
Kara N. Brockmeyer
Robert G. Wilson
Stanley M. Cichinski
Ansu N. Banerjee
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, DC 20549-4030

Tel: (202) 551-4402 (Adler)
Fax: (202) 772-9245 (Adler)

12
