cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with U.S. Equity Advantage, Inc.
and Its Owner, Robert M. Steenbergh, for Deceptive Sales Practices

NOV 20, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against U.S. Equity Advantage, Inc. (“USEA”) and its owner, Robert M.
Steenbergh. The Bureau found that the company’s disclosures and advertisements of its
auto loan payment program contained misleading statements in violation of the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010's prohibition against deceptive acts or practices. Robert M.
Steenbergh is the founder, sole-owner, and chief executive officer of USEA, a nonbank
located in Orlando, Florida. The consent order imposes a judgment against them requiring
them to pay $9,300,000 in consumer redress and contains requirements to prevent future
violations.

USEA and Steenbergh operate an auto loan payment program called AutoPayPlus, which
charges fees to deduct payments from consumers’ bank accounts every two weeks and then
forwards those payments every month to the consumers’ lenders. The Bureau found that
USEA and Steenbergh misrepresented the amount consumers would save when disclosing
the program's benefits by not including a $399 enrollment fee in the calculations presented
to consumers. USEA and Steenbergh created the misleading impression that consumers
would save money using its product, when in fact, because of the enrollment fee, the
program’s costs ordinarily exceeded any savings. The Bureau also found that USEA and
Steenbergh stated in advertising that they have helped hundreds of thousands of customers
save $29 million or more in interest by participating in AutoPayPlus when they had no basis
for making this claim, and when the program had, in fact, not saved consumers that amount.
The Bureau found that more than 100,000 consumers were subject to USEA’s and
Steenbergh’s deceptive practices and that consumers should receive $9,300,000 in redress
for fees they paid.

The ordered redress amount is suspended upon payment of $900,000 and a $1 civil money
penalty to the Bureau. The suspension of the full payment for redress, as well as the $1 civil
penalty, is based on USEA’s and Steenbergh’s demonstrated inability to pay more based on
sworn financial statements. Consumers harmed by USEA and Steenbergh may be eligible
for additional relief from the Bureau's Civil Penalty Fund. If victims cannot be located or it is
otherwise not practicable to pay victims, the Bureau will keep the money in the Fund for
victims in future cases rather than the money being sent to the Treasury.

The consent order prohibits USEA and Steenbergh from making any misrepresentations
about its payment programs. It also requires them to account for the total costs for its
payment programs, as well as the net savings or costs after deducting any fees, whenever
they make claims about savings or financial benefits.

The consent order against USEA can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_us-equity-advantage-inc-and-robert-
m-steenbergh_consent-order_2020-11.pdf  (cfpb.gov/documents/9350/cfpb_us-equity-a
dvantage-inc-and-robert-m-steenbergh_consent-order_2020-11.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
