Release Number 7347-16

 

March 23, 2016

CFTC Orders JPMorgan Ventures Energy Corp. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to Paya
$225,000 Penalty for Inaccurate Large Trader Reports for Physical Commodity Swaps
Positions

Washington - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today issued an Order filing and simultaneously
settling charges against JPMorgan Ventures Energy Corp. (JPMVE) and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMCB)
(collectively, Respondents), for failing to comply with their obligations to submit accurate large trader reports (LTRs) for
physical commodity swap positions, in violation of Section 4s(f) of the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) and CFTC
Regulations 20.4 and 20.7.

The CFTC Order requires the Respondents to pay, jointly and severally, a $225,000 civil monetary penalty and to cease
and desist from committing further violations of the CEA and CFTC Regulations, as charged.

As stated in the Order, large trader reporting for physical commodity swaps is essential to the CFTC’s ability to conduct
effective surveillance of markets in U.S. physical commodity futures and economically equivalent swaps. The Order
makes clear that as of March 1, 2013, swap dealers required to submit LTRs are expected to be in full compliance with
the requirements governing LTRs set forth in Regulations 20.4 and 20.7, in conjunction with further instructions provided
in the CFTC’s Division of Market Oversight Part 20 Guidebook.

The Order finds that during the period from at least March 1, 2013 through April 30, 2014, the Respondents filed LTRs
that routinely contained errors. The Order finds that these errors included: (1) reporting the underlying commodity,
futures equivalent months, and currency value strike price in the wrong data fields; (2) reporting futures contract
equivalents, commodity units, and notional values that were incorrect or missing; (3) providing identifying information for
principals that attributed positions to the wrong entities; and (4) incorrectly reporting counterparty names. In addition,
the Order finds that the Respondents failed to submit LTRs on two days.

As noted in the Order, the Respondents have made modifications to their data processing and reporting systems as
necessary to comply with their LTR reporting requirements, have corrected errors as they were identified, and have
submitted corrected historical LTRs.

CFTC Division of Market Oversight staff members responsible for this matter are Matthew Hunter, Kenneth Danger, and
Lynn Riggs. CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this matter are Christopher Reed, Stephen
Turley, Michael Solinsky, Thomas Simek, and Charles D. Marvine.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: March 23, 2016
