Home Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Litigation Release No. 18775 / July 6, 2004

Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 2049 / July 6, 2004

SEC SUES ABB LTD IN FOREIGN BRIBERY CASE

ABB SETTLES FEDERAL COURT ACTION
AND AGREES TO DISGORGE $5.9 MILLION IN ILLICIT
PROFITS

TWO ABB AFFILIATES ALSO PLEAD GUILTY

AND AGREE TO PAY $10.5 MILLION IN FINES

IN CRIMINAL CASE BROUGHT BY THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE

Securities and Exchange Commission v. ABB Ltd, Case No.
1:04CV1141 [RBW] (U.S.D.C., D.D.C.)

On July 6, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a settled
enforcement action in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia charging ABB Ltd, a global provider of power and automation
technologies headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, with violating the anti-
bribery, books-and-records, and internal-accounting-controls provisions of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Simultaneously with the filing of the
complaint, and without admitting or denying its allegations, ABB consented to
the entry of a final judgment enjoining it from future FCPA violations, and
requiring it (i) to pay $5.9 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest,
(ii) to pay a $10.5 million penalty, which would be deemed satisfied by two of
its affiliates’ payments of criminal fines totaling the same amount in parallel
criminal proceedings brought by the Department of Justice; and (iii) to retain
an independent consultant to review the company's FCPA compliance policies
and procedures.

In its complaint, the Commission charged that, from 1998 through early 2003,
ABB's U.S. and foreign-based subsidiaries doing business in Nigeria, Angola
and Kazakhstan, offered and made illicit payments totaling over $1.1 million
to government officials in these countries. According to the complaint, all of
the payments were made to influence acts and decisions by the foreign
officials receiving the payments, in order to assist ABB's subsidiaries in
obtaining and retaining business. The complaint further alleged that the
payments were made with the knowledge and approval of certain
management level personnel of the relevant ABB subsidiaries, and that at
least $865,726 of the payments were made after ABB became a reporting
company in the United States in April 2001. Finally, the complaint charged
that ABB improperly recorded these payments in its accounting books and
records, and lacked any meaningful internal controls to prevent or detect
such illicit payments.

According to the Commission, by making these payments through its
subsidiaries, ABB violated the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA (Section 30A
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The Commission further charged
that, by improperly recording these payments, ABB violated the books-and-
records provisions of the FCPA (Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934). Finally, the Commission charged that, by failing to devise or
maintain an effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect these
violations of the FCPA, ABB violated the internal accounting controls
provisions of the FCPA (Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934).

In determining to accept ABB's settlement offer, the Commission considered
the full cooperation that ABB provided to the Commission staff during its
investigation. The Commission also considered the fact that ABB brought this
matter to the attention of the Commission's staff and the U.S. Department of
Justice. Based in part upon ABB's cooperation, the Commission determined to
allow ABB's $10.5 million civil penalty obligation to be deemed satisfied by
two of its affiliates' payments of criminal fines totaling $10.5 million ina
parallel criminal proceeding brought by the U.S. Department of Justice.

In that parallel proceeding, also announced today, the U.S. Department of
Justice filed criminal FCPA charges against two ABB subsidiaries, who entered
guilty pleas before the Honorable Vanessa Gilmore, United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Texas: Houston-based ABB Vetco Gray, Inc.,
and Aberdeen, Scotland-based ABB Vetco Gray UK, Ltd. (United States v. ABB
Vetco Gray, Inc. and ABB Vetco Gray UK, Ltd., Case No. 04-CR-279-01 (S.D.
Texas)). In particular, ABB Vetco Gray, Inc. and ABB Vetco Gray UK, Ltd. each
agreed to plead guilty to two felony counts of violating the anti-bribery
provisions of the FCPA and to pay criminal fines that, between them, total
$10.5 million.

The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the Department of Justice in
its investigation, which is continuing.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http:./www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/Ir18775.htm

 

Home Previous Page Modified: 07/06/2004
