 

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COM

  

Proceedings Clerk

1:49 am, Jan 29, 2018 |

 

 

 

In the Matter of:

UBS AG,
CFTC Docket No. 18-07
Respondent.

Nee Nee ee” ee ee” SN”

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.
INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
UBS AG (‘UBS AG” or “Respondent’’) violated the Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act” or
“CEA”’) and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”). Therefore, the Commission deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein and to
determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer’’) that the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity
Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), and acknowledges
service of this Order.’

 

Respondent consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a
party or claimant, and agree that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect
therein, without further proof. Respondent does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the
findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or
to which the Commission is a party, other than a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a
proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer or this
Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any other proceeding.
Il.
FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

From January 2008 and continuing through at least December 2013 (the “Relevant
Period”), UBS, by and through the acts of certain precious metals traders on the spot desk,
attempted to manipulate the price of precious metals futures contracts by utilizing a variety of
manual spoofing techniques. On numerous occasions throughout the Relevant Period, a number
of UBS precious metals traders located in and outside the United States (collectively, the
Traders”), placed orders to buy or sell precious metals futures contracts, including gold and
silver (‘precious metals”) with the intent to cancel the orders before execution. By and through
the acts of these Traders, UBS engaged in unlawful spoofing.

On those occasions, UBS, by and through the acts of the Traders, intended to induce
other market participants into buying and selling precious metals futures contracts. In engaging
in the unlawful spoofing conduct, UBS, by and through the acts of the Traders, also intended to
manipulate the prices of the precious metals futures contracts. UBS, by and through the acts of
the Traders, sought to induce other market participants to fill the resting orders placed by the
Traders at UBS on the opposite side of the market from the orders that they placed with the
intent to cancel before execution.

Separately, on certain other occasions between December 2009 through February 2012,
UBS, by and through the acts of one of the Traders, placed orders and executed trades with the
intent of manipulating the price of precious metals futures contracts for the purpose of triggering
customers’ stop-loss orders.” This UBS trader coordinated his trading with another precious
metals trader at another large financial institution (“Financial Institution 1”). On those
occasions, intentionally triggering stop-loss orders would have allowed the UBS trader to buy
precious metals futures contracts at artificially low prices or sell precious metals futures
contracts at artificially high prices, for the benefit of his proprietary trading.

* * * x

In accepting the Offer of Settlement, the Commission recognizes UBS’s self-reporting
and cooperation during the Division of Enforcement’s (“Division”) investigation of this matter,
which is explained in more detail below. The Commission notes that UBS’s self-reporting,
cooperation and remediation, are being recognized in the form of a substantially reduced civil
monetary penalty.

 

? A stop-loss order, or stop order, is an order that becomes a market order when a particular price

level is reached. A sell stop is placed below the market; a buy stop is placed above the market.
B. RESPONDENT

UBS AG (“UBS”) is a Swiss banking and financial services company headquartered in
Zurich and Basel, Switzerland, that provides investment banking, asset management and wealth
management services for private, corporate and institutional clients worldwide. It has operations
in over fifty countries, including the United States.

Cc. FACTS

During the Relevant Period, UBS was engaged in precious metals trading, which
included making markets and engaging in proprietary trading in, among other things, precious
metals spot and futures markets. As part of UBS’s business, Traders placed orders and entered
into transactions for precious metals futures contracts traded on the Commodity Exchange, Inc.
(“COMEX”), a futures exchange and designated contract market which is owned and operated
by CME Group, Inc. (“CME”). UBS, by and through its Traders, traded precious metals futures
contracts on behalf of the bank.

1. Spoofing and Attempted Manipulation

UBS, by and through the acts of the Traders, placed bids or offers on COMEX with the
intent to cancel before execution, thus attempting to manipulate the price of precious metals
futures contracts by utilizing a variety of manual spoofing techniques.

Generally, the Traders placed relatively large bids or offers in the futures market with the
intent to cancel before execution (the “spoof orders”) after another smaller bid or offer (the
“resting order”) was placed on the opposite side of the same market. The Traders placed their
spoof orders with the intent to create the false appearance of market depth, which the Traders
believed and intended to create the impression of greater buying or selling interest than would
have existed otherwise. The Traders placed such spoof orders with the intent to induce other
market participants to fill their resting orders on the opposite side of the market from their spoof
orders. In engaging in the spoofing conduct, the Traders also intended to manipulate the price of
the relevant futures contract. Thereafter, the Traders cancelled the spoof orders after the resting
orders were filled or when there was too great a risk of the spoof orders being executed.

During the Relevant Period, the Traders also discussed their efforts to spoof and attempts
to manipulate the price of precious metals futures contracts in internal and external chats and
electronic messages, as shown in the examples below.

On January 25, 2008, a UBS trader, Trader A, discussed trading activity with a trader,
Trader B, who was employed by another large financial institution (“Financial Institution 1”).
Trader A wrote: “hahaah”, to which Trader B responded: “u [mu]st have [a]bout gazillions ...
and u spoof the sell.” Trader A wrote: “we good ain[’]t we”, to which Trader B responded:
“not very friendly.” Trader A wrote further: “we never are ... u want a frlien]d ... geta dog...
ahahahah.” (Emphasis added.)

On May 13, 2008, another UBS trader, Trader C, discussed trading activity with a trader
employed by Financial Institution 1, Trader D. Trader D wrote: “TKU [thank you]
SERG[EJANT SPOOF ... [YOJUR NEW NAME [Trader C.]” Trader C responded: “HAHA
NEVER SPOFF [sic] ... SPOOF UNLESS I[‘M] F...” Trader D responded: “HAHAHAH
YEA ... THEN I[‘]M F.....” (Emphases added.)

Similarly, on November 27, 2009, Trader A and another trader, Trader E, who was
employed by another large financial institution (“Financial Institution 2”) discussed trading
activity. Trader A stated in a chat: “btw the silver i bought the other day was a bit of a spoof
too... we are all big boys aren[’]t we.” Trader E responded: “you mean t[he] ““cheapies”” you
got from me? ... bastard.” Trader A wrote further: “hahahaha...the spoof wasn[’]t designed
just for [you].” Trader E wrote: “and you hit a bid.” Trader A responded: “that is nasty ... nono

just pushed a bit then called out ... [c]an[’]t be too obvious.” (Emphases added.)

In another example, on April 30, 2010, another UBS trader, Trader F discussed trading
activity with another UBS trader, Trader G. Trader F wrote: “u gotta be quick with spoofs cause
everyone else knows the trick too ... except for smaller shops ... and algos of course.” Trader
F wrote further: “u know i use[d] to do that is Stamford so ican get filled ... i’d be short 10k,
show a bid for 35 lots ... mkt chases it ... i shift it lower ... and lower.” (Emphases added.)

In another example, on August 2, 2010, Trader F was discussed trading activity with
another UBS trader. Trader F wrote: “u know when u were gone i did the regular bid/offer
thing to spoof ... i got lifted twice haha ... think that trick is slowly starting to catch up.”
Trader F wrote further: “sometimes ... but when i see stuff like that in the futures i been
smacking it ... last time me and [Financial Institution 1] were doing that, worked in our
favor.” (Emphases added.)

In a July 19, 2011 chat, Trader F discussed trading activity with another trader, Trader H,
who was employed by Financial Institution 1 in Singapore. Trader F wrote: “u are short, u want
me to ram up gold? ... haha.” Trader H at Financial Institution 1 responded, “haha ... yes.”
Trader F wrote further: “just sit on the bid ... let me spoof it for u ... don{’]t pay me on the
futures.” (Emphasis added.)

As reflected in these communications and other evidence, the UBS Traders engaged in
spoofing and attempted to manipulate the precious metals futures markets.

2. Attempted Manipulation Relating to Stop Loss Orders

On certain other occasions, between December 2009 through February 2012, one UBS
trader, Trader F, attempted to manipulate the price of precious metals futures contracts in a
manner that could trigger customer stop-loss orders in the market in order to obtain a profit.
Trader F coordinated this trading with Trader H at Financial Institution 1.

On certain occasions, a customer had a stop-loss order placed through UBS, and Trader F
coordinated with Trader H at Financial Institution 1 to place orders and execute trades in an
attempt to push the price up or down, as needed, in the precious metals futures markets in an
attempt to trigger the customer’s stop-loss order. On other occasions, Trader F would
communicate with Trader H at Financial Institution 1 to determine the level in the market that
customer stop-loss orders were resting at Financial Institution 1, and would coordinate their
precious metals futures trading also for the purpose of triggering the customer’s stop-loss orders.
Trader F engaged in this conduct intending to manipulate the prices of the precious metals
futures contracts. Trader F executed trades with the understanding that his orders and trades had
the ability to affect or influence prices. Trader F sought to benefit from the attempted
manipulation by buying or selling futures contracts at prices that were artificially high or low.

Trader F and Trader H at Financial Institution 1 regularly discussed their attempts to
manipulate through the stop loss manipulation strategies. Below are several examples of such
chats.

On September 3, 2010, Trader F discussed trading to trigger stop loss orders with Trader
H at Financial Institution 1: “...when u push for stops u can[’]t wait for dip, u gotta hold the
bid and slowly push it up.” Trader H responded: “haha true ... ok will see how the master does
it.” (Emphasis added.)

On November 18, 2010, Trader H at Financial Institution 1 told Trader F, “/7] have
chunky stop at 27.35 ... keep to urself.” Trader F told Trader H “go get that chunky monkey,”
to which Trader H responded, “i am,” and asked Trader F “u wanna come on boar[d]?” Trader
F agreed and wrote, “I’Il get a 40 print for you.” Trader H responded by calling them “the hunt
brothers.” In response, Trader F wrote, “chill man, they went to jail.” (Emphases added.)

In another example, on January 7, 2011, Trader H at Financial Institution 1 asked Trader
F, via a chat, about the level in the market at which customer stop loss orders were resting.
Trader H asked “where are ur stops ... i can hunt with u.” A few minutes later, Trader F asked
Trader H “yo can u help me push silver down?... im stuck with this stop damnit ... need a 72
print.” When the market reached the stop level that they were seeking, Trader H told Trader F
“there u go.” After the trading sequence, Trader H wrote to Trader F “i practice my hammer
well right,” to which Trader F commented that “i just need a 72 print haha, u really butched it.
(Emphases added.)

eb)

On January 19, 2011, Trader F told Trader H at Financial Institution 1 that he intends to
get a “43 print” in platinum and tells him to “go long the plat[inum].” Trader H responded
“loaded up some,” and bought platinum futures contracts. Trader H then told Trader F, “i help u
print it.” A few minutes later, Trader F wrote, “get ready,” and Trader H responded “Jet me
know ... when to let the proton cannon loose.” Shortly thereafter, Trader F wrote, “steady ...
steady ... ok lets go.” Trader H then bought more platinum futures contracts and wrote “that was
for the print ... can sell u back.”(Emphases added.)

On March 29, 2011, Trader F asked Trader H at Financial Institution 1 for assistance in
the gold futures market, asking Trader H to “push it up” because Trader F “need[ed] a print.”
Trader F then told Trader H that he “got if’ [i.e., the print]. A few minutes later, Trader F
offered to sell Trader H gold futures contracts at an advantageous price “cause u helped me for
the print.” (Emphases added.)

On August 11, 2011, Trader F and Trader H at Financial Institution 1 were discussing
coordination of stop loss manipulation and Trader H wrote “the 1 lot offer ... is so powerful ... i
love it.” Trader F responded, “it depends what kinda mkt ... sometimes u use muscle ...
sometimes u use blade ... this is blade ... but then two guys doing it like this together is small
muscle and blade.” Trader H responded, “yeah ... dude ... ilike it... double dragon.”
(Emphases added.)

As reflected in these communications and other evidence, Trader F at UBS on occasion
colluded with and coordinated his trading with Trader H at Financial Institution 1, in an attempt
to manipulate the precious metals futures markets.

3. UBS’s Self-Reporting, Cooperation and Remediation

During the course of an internal investigation, UBS discovered potential misconduct , of
which the Division was previously unaware. After discovering that misconduct, UBS promptly
self-reported the misconduct to the Division and continued its internal investigation.

During its investigation, UBS, among other things, notified the Division of potential
misconduct as it uncovered it and provided the Division timely updates on its internal
investigation on a rolling basis; disclosed to the Division pertinent facts relevant to that
misconduct, including facts related to involvement of individuals; identified specific documents
in its productions that were particularly relevant to the misconduct at issue, and provided the
Division information relating to the provenance of the documents.

UBS also proactively worked to remediate and enhance its compliance systems and
policies related to spoofing in precious metals futures contracts, and futures contracts generally.

Due to UBS’s self-reporting, cooperation, and remediation, the civil monetary penalty
imposed by the Commission has been substantially reduced from the otherwise applicable
penalty.

Il.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Attempted Manipulation of the Price of Precious Metals Futures Contracts, in
Violation of Section 9(a)(2) of the Act; Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act (for Conduct
Occurring Prior to August 15, 2011); Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act
and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2 (for Conduct Occurring On or After August 15,

2011)

Together, Sections 6(c),° 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act prohibit acts of manipulation and
attempted manipulation. 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012). Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes
it unlawful for “[a]ny person to manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any commodity
in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity.”
7 ULS.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012).

 

3 Section 6(c) was amended effective August 15, 2011.
For conduct prior to August 15, 2011, Section 6(c) and (d) of the Act authorizes the
Commission to serve a complaint and provide for the imposition of, among other things, civil
monetary penalties and cease and desist orders if the Commission “has reason to believe that
any person... has manipulated or attempted to manipulate the market price of any commodity,
in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity,
... or otherwise is violating or has violated any of the provisions of [the] Act.” 7 U.S.C. §§ 9,
13b (2006).

For conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011, the Commission is authorized to
serve a complaint and impose penalties and cease and desist orders with regard to manipulation
and attempted manipulation in violation of the broader amended provisions of Sections 6(c)(1)
and 6(c)(3) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1), (3) (2012), and the Regulations implementing those
provisions. Section 6(c)(1) of the Act prohibits the use or attempted use of any manipulative
device in connection with any swap or contract of sale of any commodity in interstate
commerce, or for future delivery, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2012), and Regulation 180.1(a)(1), 17 C-F.R.
§ 180.1(a)(1) (2017), makes it “unlawful . . . , directly or indirectly, in connection with any
swap, or contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or contract for future
delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, to... (1) [u]se... or attempt to use .
..any manipulative device, scheme or artifice to defraud... .” Section 6(c)(3) of the Act
prohibits the manipulation or attempted manipulation of the price of any commodity in interstate
commerce, 7 U.S.C. § 9(3) (2012), and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R. § 180.2 (2017), makes it
“unlawful .. . directly or indirectly, to manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any
swap, or of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the
rules of any registered entity.”

As described above, UBS AG, by and through the acts of the Traders, attempted to
manipulate the price of precious metals futures contracts by utilizing a variety of manual
spoofing techniques, in violation of Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012);
Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b (2006), for conduct occurring prior to
August 15, 2011; and Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b
(2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2017), for conduct
occurring on or after August 15, 2011.

Furthermore, UBS, by and through the conduct of Trader F, attempted to manipulate the
price of precious metals futures contracts by engaging in scheme to trigger customer stop-loss
orders, in violation of Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012); Sections 6(c) and
6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b (2006), for conduct occurring prior to August 15, 2011;
Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b (2012), and Regulations
180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2017), for conduct occurring on or after August 15,
2011.

B. Spoofing in the Precious Metals Futures Markets, in Violation of Section 4c(a)(5)(C)
of the Act

Section 4c(a)(5) of the Act makes it unlawful for “[a]ny person to engage in any trading,
practice, or conduct on or subject to the rules of a registered entity that .. . is, is of the character
of, or is commonly known to the trade as, ‘spoofing’ (bidding or offering with the intent to
cancel the bid or offer before execution).” 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012). See also United States
v. Coscia, 866 F.3d 782, 793 (7th Cir. 2017) (holding that because the CEA clearly defines
spoofing, it provides adequate notice of prohibited conduct).

As described above, UBS AG, by and through the acts of the Traders, entered bids or
offers on a registered entity with the intent to cancel the bids or offers before execution, in
violation of Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act. See, e.g., Inre Posen, CFTC No. 17-20, 2017 WL
3216576, at *2 (July 26, 2017) (consent order) (manual trader “entered into thousands of bids or
offers on a registered entity with the intent to cancel the bids or offers before execution in
violation of Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act”); CFTC v. Oystacher, 203 F. Supp. 3d 934, 942
(N.D. Ill. 2016) (denying motion for judgment on the pleadings, holding that allegations of
placing “both bids and offers with the intent to cancel those bids or offers before execution”
constitutes “trading behavior [that] falls within the Spoofing Statute’s defined prohibition”);
CFTC vy. Nav Sarao Futures Ltd., No. 15-3398, 2016 WL 8257513, at *10 (N.D. Ill. Nov. 14,
2016) (consent order) (finding that defendants engaged in spoofing techniques by, among other
things, “plac[ing] tens of thousands of bids and offers for the E-Mini S&P contract with the
intent of cancelling those bids and offers before execution (i.e., Spoof Orders)”); CFTC v.
Khara, No. 15-CV-03497, ECF 35 at 6 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 31, 2016) (consent order) (finding that
“Defendants ... engaged in unlawful disruptive trading practices or conduct in the gold and silver
futures markets ... that were, were of the character of, or were commonly known to the trade as
‘spoofing’ (bidding and offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution)”).

C. UBS AG Is Liable for the Acts of Its Agents

Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2,
17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2017), provide that “[t]he act, omission, or failure of any official, agent, or other
person acting for any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust within the scope
of his employment or office shall be deemed the act, omission, or failure of such individual,
association, partnership, corporation, or trust.” Pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act and
Regulation 1.2, strict liability is imposed on principals for the actions of their agents. See, e.g.,
Rosenthal & Co. v. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986); CFTC v. Byrnes, 58 F. Supp. 3d
319, 324 (S.D.N.Y. 2014).

The acts, omissions, and failures of the Traders occurred within the course and scope of
their employment, office, or agency with UBS AG; therefore, pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of
the Act, and Regulation 1.2, UBS AG is liable for the acts, omissions, and failures of the Traders
in violation of the provisions of the Act and Regulations cited above.

IV.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that UBS AG violated the Act and
Regulations, as follows:

(i) UBS AG attempted to manipulate prices, in violation of: Section 9(a)(2) of the Act;
7 US.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012); Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b (2006),
for conduct occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b (2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 180.1, 180.2 (2017), for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011; and

(ii) UBS AG engaged in spoofing in the precious metals futures markets in violation of
Section 4c(a)(5) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012), for conduct occurring on or
after July 16, 2011.

V.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT
Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it:
Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

Waives:
1, The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;
4. Judicial review by any court;

5. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
ULS.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2017), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-874 (codified as amended in scattered sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15
US.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;
Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;

Requests, for the reasons set forth in Respondent’s letter dated January 22, 2018
(“Request Letter”), that the Commission advise that, under the circumstances,
disqualification under Rule 262(a) of Regulation A and Rule 506(d)(1) of Regulation D
of the Securities & Exchange Commission (“SEC”), 17 C.F.R. §§ 230.262(a),
230.506(d)(1) (2017), should not arise as a consequence of this Order;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:
1. Makes findings by the Commission that:

(i) UBS AG attempted to manipulate prices in violation of: Section 9(a)(2) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012); Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9,
13b (2006), for conduct occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and Sections 6(c)(1),
6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b (2012), and Regulations
180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2017), for conduct occurring on or
after August 15, 2011; and

(ii) UBS AG engaged in spoofing in the precious metals futures markets in
violation of Section 4c(a)(5) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012), for
conduct occurring on or after July 16, 2011.

2. Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating the Act and Regulations, as
set forth below;

3. Orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000), within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order. If the
CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the
Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning
on the date of entry of the Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury
Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of the Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961

(2012).

4. Orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order;
and

5. Advises that, under the circumstances, disqualification under Rule 262(a) of

Regulation A and Rule 506(d)(1) of Regulation D of the SEC should not arise as a
consequence of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

10
VI.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent and its successors and assigns shall cease and desist from violating:

1. Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2)
(2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2017); and

2. Section 4c(a)(5) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(S)(C) (2012).

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000) (“CMP Obligation”), within ten (10) days of the date of the entry of this
Order. If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of the date of entry
of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning
on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is
to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made
payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 (office)

(405) 954-1620 (fax)
marie.thorn@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Marie
Thorn or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1]
Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and
assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control shall take any action or
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or
conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this
Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision
shall affect Respondent’s: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal
positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party. Respondent
and its successors and assigns shall comply with this agreement, and shall undertake
all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under their
authority or control understand and comply with this agreement.

Procedures and Controls to Detect Spoofing Activity: Respondent shall continue
to implement systems and controls reasonably designed to detect spoofing activity
by its traders on or subject to the rules of a registered entity, such as the systems
and controls Respondent developed and implemented in response to the Traders’
spoofing activity. These systems and controls shall, at a minimum, be designed to
detect and generate a report regarding patterns of trading that might constitute
spoofing activity. Respondent’s personnel shall promptly review such reports and
follow up as necessary to determine whether spoofing activity has occurred.

Training: Respondent shall maintain its training program that provides training,
at least annually, addressing the legal requirements of the Act with regard to
spoofing, manipulation and attempted manipulation, to be given to all employees
trading on behalf of Respondent or other affiliated entities who submit any orders
on futures markets, and their supervisors.

Cooperation with the Commission: Respondent shall continue to cooperate fully
and expeditiously with the Commission, including the Division, in this action, and
in any current or future Commission investigation or action related thereto.
Respondent shall also cooperate with the Commission in any investigation, civil
litigation, or administrative matter related to, or arising from, this action. As part
of such cooperation, Respondent agrees to:

i. preserve and produce to the Commission in a responsive and prompt
manner, as requested by Division Staff, all non-privileged documents,
information, and other materials wherever located, subject to applicable
laws and regulations, including but not limited to audio files, electronic
communications, and trading records and data, in the possession, custody,
or control of Respondent;

ii. comply fully, promptly, completely and truthfully, subject to any legally
recognized privilege or applicable law and regulations, with any inquiries
or requests for information and documents by the Commission;

iii. identify and authenticate relevant documents and other evidentiary
materials, execute affidavits or declarations, and provide a corporate
representative to testify completely and truthfully at depositions, trial, and

12
other judicial proceedings, when requested to do so by the Division Staff,
subject to applicable law and regulations;

iv. use its best efforts to produce any current (as of the time of the request)
officer, director, employee, or agent of UBS, regardless of the individual’s
location and at such a location that minimizes Commission travel
expenditures, to provide assistance at any trial, proceeding, or Commission
investigation related to the subject matter of this proceeding, including but
not limited to, requests for testimony, depositions, and/or interviews, and to
encourage them to testify completely and truthfully in any such proceeding,
trial or investigation, subject to applicable law and regulations; and

v. subject to applicable laws and regulations, use its best efforts to assist in
locating and contacting any prior (as of the time of the request) officer,
director, employee or agent of UBS.

Prohibited or Conflicting Undertakings: Should the Undertakings herein be
prohibited by, or be contrary to, the provisions of any obligations imposed on
Respondent by any presently existing, or hereinafter enacted or promulgated laws,
rules, regulations, or regulatory mandates, then Respondent shall promptly
transmit notice to the Commission (through the Division) of such prohibition or
conflict, and shall meet and confer in good faith with the Commission (through
the Division) to reach an agreement regarding possible modifications to the
Undertakings herein sufficient to resolve such inconsistent obligations. In the
interim, Respondent will abide by the obligations imposed by the laws, rules,
regulations, and regulatory mandates. Nothing in these Undertakings shall limit,
restrict or narrow any obligations pursuant to the Act or the Commission’s
Regulations promulgated thereunder, including, but not limited to, Regulations
1.31 and 1.35, 17 C.F.R.§§ 1.31, 1.35 (2017), in effect now or in the future.

 

Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of any partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a
waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

Based on the nature of the violations; the findings made, and the sanctions, conditions, and
undertakings imposed in the Order; and the facts and representations in Respondent’s
Request Letter, the Commission advises" that, under the circumstances, disqualification

 

4

Rule 506(d)()(Gii)(B) disqualifies an issuer from relying on the private offering exemptions provided for in

Rule 506 if they or certain related parties are “subject to a final order of .. . [inter alia] the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission . , . that: . . . [c]onstitutes a final order based on a violation of any law or regulation that
prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct.” Rule 506(d)(2)(ili), however, provides that
disqualification “shall not apply” if the CFTC “advises in writing” that disqualification under Rule 506(d)(1)
“should not arise as a consequence of such order.” See also 17 C.F.R. §§ 262(a)(3\(ii), (b)(3) (parallel provisions
under Regulation A); SEC, Exemptions to Facilitate Intrastate and Regional Securities Offerings, 81 Fed. Reg.
83,494, 83,545 (Nov. 21, 2016) (stating that disqualification under Rule 504 arises “absent a waiver or other
exception provided in Rule 506(d)’).

13
under Rule 262(a) of Regulation A and Rule 506(d)(1) of Regulation D of the SEC, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 230.262(a), 230.506(d)(1) (2017), should not arise as a consequence of this Order.”

The Commission notes that if the facts are different from those represented, or
Respondent fails to comply with the terms of the Order, the Commission may, in its
discretion, revisit its advice that disqualification should not arise. The Commission
reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to withdraw or otherwise revoke or further
condition its advice under those circumstances.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

BAL \ Rebxh-

Christopher J "Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: January 29, 2018

 

° In providing this advice, the Commission considered factors similar to those considered by the SEC when it

issues waivers of disqualification under Regulation D and Regulation A. The SEC grants waivers where an applicant
has shown “good cause and ... if the [SEC] determines that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the
exemptions be denied,” 17 C.F.R. §§ 230.262(b)(2), 230.506(d)(2)(ii), based on its analysis of how the identified
misconduct bears on the applicant’s fitness to participate in offerings exempted under Regulation D and Regulation A.
See SEC, Div. of Corp. Fin., Waivers of Disqualification Under Regulation A and Rules 505 and 506 of Regulation D,
https://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/guidance/disqualification-waivers.shtml; SEC, Div. of Corp. Fin., Rule 504 of
Regulation D: A Small Entity Compliance Guide for Issuers, https://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/guidance/rule504-
issuer-small-entity-compliance.html. The SEC considers the following primary factors in determining whether to
grant a waiver request: (i) the nature of the violation and whether it involved the offer or sale of securities; (ii)
whether the violation required scienter; (ii1) who was responsible for the misconduct; (iv) what was the duration of the
misconduct; (v) what remedial steps have been taken; and (vi) the impact on the party seeking a waiver and third
parties if a waiver is denied. Respondent’s Request Letter addressed these factors in the context of this Order.

The Commission considers these factors in the context of the markets it regulates, and also takes into account whether
it determined that a statutory disqualification under the Act should arise solely based on the misconduct found herein
and leading to disqualification under Regulation A and Regulation D. The Commission is guided by waivers granted
by the SEC in prior cases involving similar facts and circumstances. See, e.g., Jn re JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
Securities Act Release No. 9993, 2015 WL 9256636 (Dec. 18, 2015) (SEC order determining that good cause had
been shown that it was not necessary to deny reliance on the exemption under Rule 506 of Regulation D, where
disqualification had been triggered by a CFTC order relating to JEMCB’s failure to adequately disclose certain
conflicts of interest to clients); Jn re UBS AG, Securities Act Release No. 9787, 2015 WL 2395516 (May 20, 2015)
(SEC order determining that good cause had been shown that it was not necessary to deny reliance on the exemption
under Rule 506, where disqualification had been triggered by a criminal guilty plea relating to FX benchmark
manipulation and noting the entry of parallel CFTC orders); Jn re Barclays PLC, Securities Act Release No. 9786,
2015 WL 2395515 (May 20, 2015) (SEC order determining that good cause had been shown that it was not necessary
to deny reliance on the exemption under Rule 506 where disqualification had been triggered by a CFTC order relating
to FX benchmark and ISDAFIX manipulation); see also, e.g., Piper Jaffray & Co., SEC No-Action Letter, 2015 WL
4451053 (July 20, 2015) (SEC no-action letter determining that good cause had been show that it was not necessary to
deny reliance on the exemptions under Regulation A and Rule 506 of Regulation D, where disqualification had been
triggered by an SEC order, and applying the same factors to consideration of waiver for both exemptions)..

14
