Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Siemens AG for Engaging in Worldwide
Bribery

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2008-294

Washington, D.C., Dec. 15, 2008 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today announced an unprecedented settlement with Siemens AG to resolve
SEC charges that the Munich, Germany-based manufacturer of industrial and
consumer products violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by
engaging in a systematic practice of paying bribes to foreign government
officials to obtain business.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 20829
®» SEC Complaint

 

The SEC alleges that Siemens paid bribes on such widespread transactions as
the design and construction of metro transit lines in Venezuela, power plants
in Israel, and refineries in Mexico. Siemens also used bribes to obtain such
business as developing mobile telephone networks in Bangladesh, national
identity cards in Argentina, and medical devices in Vietnam, China, and
Russia. According to the SEC's complaint, Siemens also paid kickbacks to Iraqi
ministries in connection with sales of power stations and equipment to Iraq
under the United Nations Oil for Food Program. Siemens earned more than
$1.1 billion in profits on these and several other transactions.

Siemens has agreed to pay $350 million in disgorgement to settle the SEC's
charges, and a $450 million fine to the U.S. Department of Justice to settle
criminal charges. Siemens also will pay a fine of approximately $569 million to
the Office of the Prosecutor General in Munich, to whom the company
previously paid an approximately $285 million fine in October 2007.

"Public companies that bribe foreign officials are confronting an increasingly
well-coordinated international law enforcement effort," said SEC Chairman
Christopher Cox. "The SEC has brought a record number of enforcement
actions for foreign bribery during the past two years, and heightened
international cooperation has been critical to those successful efforts.
Seimens paid staggering amounts of money to circumvent the rules and gain
business. Now, they will pay for it with the largest settlement in the history of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act since it became law in 1977."

Linda Chatman Thomsen, Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement, said,
"This pattern of bribery by Siemens was unprecedented in scale and
geographic reach. The corruption alleged in the SEC's complaint involved
more than $1.4 billion in bribes to government officials in Asia, Africa, Europe,
the Middle East, and the Americas. Our success in bringing the company to
justice is a testament to the close, coordinated working relationship among
the SEC, the U.S. Department of Justice, and international law enforcement,
particularly the Office of the Prosecutor General in Munich."

Cheryl J. Scarboro, an Associate Director in the SEC's Division of Enforcement,
said, "The day is past when multi-national corporations could regard illicit
payments to foreign officials as simply another cost of doing business. The
$1.6 billion in combined sanctions that Siemens will pay in the U.S. and
Germany should make clear that these corrupt business practices will be
rooted out wherever they take place, and the sanctions for them will be
severe."

The SEC's complaint alleges that between March 12, 2001, and Sept. 30,
2007, Siemens created elaborate payment schemes to conceal the nature of
its corrupt payments, and the company's inadequate internal controls allowed
the conduct to flourish. Siemens made thousands of payments to third parties
in ways that obscured the purpose for, and the ultimate recipients of, the
money. Employees obtained large amounts of cash from cash desks, which
were sometimes transported in suitcases across international borders for
bribery. The authorizations for payments were placed on post-it notes and
later removed to eradicate any permanent record. Siemens used numerous
slush funds, off-books accounts maintained at unconsolidated entities, and a
system of business consultants and intermediaries to facilitate the corrupt
payments. Siemens made at least 4,283 payments, totaling approximately
$1.4 billion, to bribe government officials in return for business to Siemens
around the world. In addition, Siemens made approximately 1,185 separate
payments to third parties totaling approximately $391 million, which were not
properly controlled and were used, at least in part, for such illicit purposes as
commercial bribery and embezzlement.
The misconduct involved employees at all levels, including former senior
management, and revealed a corporate culture long at odds with the FCPA.
The SEC's complaint alleges that despite the company's knowledge of bribery
at two of its largest groups — Communications and Power Generation — the
tone at the top at Siemens was inconsistent with an effective FCPA
compliance program and created a corporate culture in which bribery was
tolerated and even rewarded at the highest levels of the company. In
November 2006, Siemens' current management began to implement reforms
to the company's internal controls, which substantially reduced, but did not
entirely eliminate, corrupt payments. All but $27.5 million of the corrupt
payments occurred before Nov. 15, 2006.

Siemens violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Exchange Act) by making illicit payments to foreign government officials in
order to obtain or retain business. Siemens violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the
Exchange Act by failing to have adequate internal controls to detect and
prevent the payments. Siemens violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange
Act by improperly recording the payments in its books and records.

Without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, Siemens has consented to
the entry of a court order permanently enjoining it from future violations of
Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act; ordering it to
pay $350 million in disgorgement of wrongful profits, which does not include
profits factored into Munich's fine; and ordering it to comply with certain
undertakings regarding its FCPA compliance program, including an
independent monitor for a period of four years. Since being approached by
SEC staff, Siemens has cooperated fully with the ongoing investigation.
Siemens' massive internal investigation and lower level employee amnesty
program was essential in gathering facts regarding the full extent of Siemens'
FCPA violations.

The SEC acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice, Fraud
Section; the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia, Fraud and
Public Corruption Section; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Internal
Revenue Service; the Office of the Prosecutor General in Munich, Germany;
the U.K. Financial Services Authority; and the Hong Kong Securities and
Futures Commission.

HH#H
For more information, contact:

Cheryl J. Scarboro
Associate Director, SEC's Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2008/2008-294.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 12/15/2008
