2020-BCFP-0024 Document’ Filed 12/18/2020 Page 1 of 45

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP-0024

 

In the Matter of: CONSENT ORDER

Seterus, Inc. and
Kyanite Services, Inc., as the
successor in interest to Seterus, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
servicing practices of Seterus, Inc. (Seterus) relating to loss mitigation applications
and has identified the following law violations. First, Seterus has committed unfair
acts or practices by failing to accurately review, process, track, and communicate
to borrowers information regarding their applications for loss mitigation options.
Second, Seterus has committed deceptive acts or practices by sending loss
mitigation application acknowledgment notices that misrepresented the status of
borrower application documents as received or missing and provided inaccurate
due dates for submission of borrower application documents. Third, Seterus has
violated the provisions relating to loss mitigation procedures in Regulation X, 12

C.F.R. § 1024.41, the implementing regulation of the 2013 Real Estate Settlement
ANN PAR PEP ON ~~ C4 wens I AA wy ~ cose
SOOO REE IAA Maciimant 4 Ribas TO RPA Dana Gat AS
oh. A Pe OA hk AGEiter gh of PRAGA fay bP eke PoC a war Sa

Procedures Act (RESPA), 12 U.S.C. § 2601, et seg., by (1) sending
acknowledgment notices that failed to state the additional documents and
information borrowers needed to submit to complete their loss mitigation
applications; (2) failing to provide areasonable due date for submission of
borrower documents; (3) failing to exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining
documents and information necessary to complete borrowers’ loss mitigation
applications; (4) failing to properly evaluate borrowers who submitted complete
loss mitigation applications for all loss mitigation options available to the
borrower; and (5) failing to treat certain applications as “facially complete” when
required under Regulation X. Fourth, because Regulation X is a Federal consumer
financial law, Seterus’s violations of Regulation X also constitute violations of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1 (A).
Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues
this Consent Order (Consent Order) against Seterus and Kyanite Services, Inc., as

the successor in interest to Seterus.
Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565 and under RESPA, 12 U.S.C. § 2601, et seq.,

and its implementing regulation, Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. Part 1024.

I.
Stipulation

Respondent, as defined below, has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the
Issuance of a Consent Order,” dated December 10, 2020 (Stipulation), which
is incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this
Stipulation, Respondent has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order
by the Bureau under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §$§ 5563,
5565, without admitting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions
of law, except that Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the

Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondent andthe subject matter of this action.

Ul.

Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
AAA Pe PePer A mo “ eee ee Petr a A PP PA ee a a ae
SHORE EAA Macument 4 Filed Te fa 8 feoeg Rar A of 45
he LP I NE Fe Rat A Aghiter dh of PRENSA bay dk aoa ee Po Geka wwe 2

“Acknowledgment Notice” means any notice sent to a borrower seeking
loss mitigation that acknowledges receipt of the borrower’s loss
mitigation application materials, indicates that the servicer has
determined that the loss mitigation application is either com plete or
incomplete, and ifthe application is incomplete, purports to inform the
borrower of the additional documents or information the borrower must
submit to make the loss mitigation application complete and a date by
which the borrower should submit the documents and information
necessary to makethe loss mitigation application complete.
“Acknowledgment Notice” includes “(b)(2) Notices” as well as any
other notices meeting this definition of “Acknowledgment Notice” sent
to the borrower, whether or not the notice was required by 12 C.F.R. §
1024.41(b)(2).

“Affected Consumer” means a borrower (1) whose mortgage loan was
secured by a property that was the borrower’s principal residence, (11)
whose mortgage loan was serviced by Seterus, (111) who submitted a
Loss Mitigation Document to Seterus between January 10, 2014 and
April 30, 2018, and (iv) to whom Seterus thereafter sent one or more

Defective Acknowledgment Notices, with the following limitations:
AAA PrP AANA my ak ett A IN mom et ae
SHORE EAA Macument 4 Filed Te fa 8 feoeg Pane oat fs
he LP I NE Fe Rat A Aghiter dh of PRENSA bay dk aoa ee roe wer oad ME -

il.

The term “Affected Consumer” does not include any borrower for
whom (1) the last Acknowledgment Notice sent to the borrower
was accurate; (2) the last Acknowledgment Notice sent to the
borrower provided at least 30 days to return documents; and (3) the
foreclosure sale of the borrower’s property occurred more than 30
days after the due dateto return documents identified in the last
Acknowledgment Notice sent to the borrower; and

The term “Affected Consumer” does not include any borrower
whose loans were paid in full before or within 30 days of the date
Seterus sent the first Defective Acknowledgment Notice to the

borrower.

““(b)(2) Notice” means the written notice a servicer is required to send

to borrowers seeking loss mitigation pursuant to 12 C.F.R. §

1024.41(b)(2).

“Board” means Respondent’s duly-elected and acting Board of

Directors or equivalent delegated person or entity vested with

equivalent authority.

“Defective Acknowledgment Notice” means:

1.

an Acknowledgment Notice sent between January 10, 2014 and

January 5, 2015;
AAAA Peer AAR A
PAPAL REE EAA A
whe ke BT Bae

il.

lil.

an Acknowledgment Noticethat requested any document, which

was sent between January 6, 2015 and January 31, 2016, to any

borrower seeking a liquidation option; and

an Acknowledgment Notice sent between January 6, 2015 and

April 30, 2018 that contained one or more of the following defects:

A. the due date for required documents to be returned was

incorrect for at least one of the following reasons:

1.

the due date fell on, or after, the actual foreclosure sale
date;

the Acknowledgment Notice inaccurately provided 30
days to return documents;

the due date fell before the Acknowledgment Notice
letter date;

the due date was the same day as the Acknowledgment
Notice letter date;

the due date was different from the due date indicated in
another substantively identical Acknowledgment Notice
sent on the same day;

the Acknowledgment Notice required a due date but did

not contain a due date; or
AAA PrP AANA my ak ett A IN mo et ae
SHORE EAA Macument 7 Filed Te fa 8 feoeg Dane - af As
he LP I NE Fe Rat A Aghiter dh of PRENSA bay dk aoa ee Po CAMS FASE ri

B. the Acknowledgment Notice was sent on or after an actual
foreclosure sale date.

f. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is entered
on the administrative docket.

g. “Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or
her delegate.

h. “Foreclosed Group | Borrower’ means any Affected Consumer whose
property was sold at foreclosure within 90 days of the date that Seterus
sent the last Defective Acknowledgment Notice to the borrower, with
the following limitations:

1. Foreclosed Group 1 Borrower does not include any borrower who
received a loss mitigation offer, based on a full loss mitigation
review, between the date Seterus sent the last Defective
Acknowledgment Noticeto the borrower andthe date ofthe
foreclosure sale; and

iil. Foreclosed Group | Borrower does not include any borrower who
received a loss mitigation dental, for a reason other than failure to

submit required documents, between the date Seterus sent the last
AANA RIES ARM A oy 4 mo AA AIA a
DOPORGER.O004 Macoument 1 Bila POPRiegeg Pane & at &5
ae We Pe Che Cea) Rath. Aghatar dl of PoREA A er da ea bo CAMS Le Ase ri

Defective Acknowledgment Notice to the borrower and the date of
the foreclosure sale.
“Foreclosed Group 2 Borrower” means any Affected Consumer who
(1) submitted his or her documents by the latest date specified in the
Defective Acknowledgment Notice(s) sent to the borrower, and (11) was
approved for a loan modification, but for whom (a) a foreclosure sale
took place prior to the expiration date by which the borrower was
required to accept, decline, or appeal the modification decision and (b)
the foreclosure sale was not rescinded.
“Loss Mitigation Document’ means any oneof the following
documents: bank statement; profit and loss statement; pay stub;
estimated HUD-1; sales contract; listing agreement; MLS listing
history; hardship letter; award letter; signed credit report authorization;
signed IRS Form 4506T-EZ; IRS Form 4506T; invalid 4506T; and
Uniform Borrower Assistance Form.
‘“‘Non-Foreclosed Borrower” means any Affected Consumer whose
property was not sold at foreclosure within 90 days of the date Seterus
sent the last Defective Acknowledgment Notice to the borrower, with

the following limitations:
ARAA Pr ARTA my ak ett A IN a
SHORE EAA Macument 4 Bila POPRiegeg Pane Goafas
he LP I NE Fe Rat A Aghiter dh of PRENSA bay dk aoa ee PO CAMS af AE 2

i. Non-Foreclosed Borrower does not include any borrower who
received a loss mitigation offer, based on a full loss mitigation
review, within 120 days ofthe date Seterus sent the first Defective
Acknowledgment Noticeto the borrower;

iit. | Non-Foreclosed Borrower does not include any borrower who
received a loss mitigation denial, for a reason other than failure to
submit required documents, within 120 days of the date Seterus
sent the first Defective Acknowledgment Notice to the borrower;

“Purchaser” means Nationstar Mortgage LLC, doing business as Mr.

Cooper.

“Related Consumer Action” meansa private action by or on behalf of

one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another

governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent

Order.

“Relevant Period” includes the period from January 10, 2014 to April

30, 2018.

“Respondent” means Seterus, Inc., as it existed until February 28, 2019

and thereafter refers to Kyanite Services, Inc. (Kyanite), as the
AA PEE A A Py . oA pay ee re ee ax Agr ~ a
SOO Dee m AWA Pree ey ceed of Wiad 4°94 6 FS OO Brees, AM af AR
ee eh fae ore bead rd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PREG OG ee Aa et eee Pe edi es Pi Fer gay
on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd S oPPeka of as Pa ee! 5 Rage RA A

successor in interest to Seterus, and Kyanite’s successors and assigns.
Respondent does not include Purchaser.

p. “Triggering Document” means a document the receipt of which
triggered Seterus’s internal systems to initiate the automated

Acknowledgment Notice process.

IV.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

During the Relevant Period, Seterus was a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Kyanite. Seterus maintained its principal place of business in Raleigh, North
Carolina.

As of February 28, 2019, Seterus was sold, including all rights and certain
liabilities, to Purchaser.

At its height, Seterus serviced approximately 500,000 residential mortgage
loans. Respondent has represented that it is no longer engaged in servicing
mortgage loans.

At all times during the Relevant Period, Respondent was a “covered person,”
as that term is defined by 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6), because as a residential

mortgage servicer, it offered or provided a consumer financial product or

service. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(15)(A)(i).
10.

Regulation X requires, among other things, that a mortgage servicer that
offers loss mitigation options implement processes that: (1) inform borrowers
of the documents and information they must provide to complete the
application; (11) provide borrowers a reasonable dateto submit the documents
and information necessary to complete the application; (111) evaluate complete
applications received early enough in the foreclosure process for all
alternatives to foreclosure available to the borrower; and (iv) provide certain
foreclosure protections to borrowers who complete an application by certain
points in the foreclosure process. 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41.

A servicer must provide a written notice to the borrower within five days of
receipt ofa loss mitigation application acknowledging that the servicer has
received the application and stating that the servicer has determined that the
application is either complete or incomplete. 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(b)(2)(1)(B).
If the application is incomplete, this (b)(2) Notice must also inform the
borrower of the additional documents and information that the borrower must
submit anda reasonable date by which they should be submitted to make the
application complete. /d. at §$ 1024.41(b)(2)(1)(B), 1024.41(b)(2)(11).

Once aservicer receives all the information it requires from the borrower to
evaluatethe application, the application is “complete.” 12 C.F.R. §

1024.41(b)(1).
11.

12.

13.

2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 12 of 45

If a servicer receives a “complete” application within certain specified time
periods before a borrower’s scheduled foreclosure sale, the servicer must
evaluatethe borrower for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower
and must provide the borrower with certain foreclosure protections. 12 C.F.R.
§ 1024.41(c)(1)(G), (f(2), & (g).
If the borrower has submitted all of the documents and information requested
by the (b)(2) Notice, or the servicer does not seek additional documents in the
(b)(2) Notice, the application is “facially complete.” 12 C.F.R.
§ 1024.41(c)(2)(iv). A borrower with a “facially complete” application is
entitledto the same protections from foreclosure actions as a borrower witha
“complete” application, even iftheservicer later discovers it needs additional
information or that the borrower must make corrections to a previously
submitted document. /d.

Seterus Failed to Accurately Review, Process, Track, and

Communicate to Borrowers Information Regarding Their Applications
for Loss Mitigation.

 

 

 

As part of its efforts to comply with Regulation X, Seterus made the decision
to issue Acknowledgment Notices in response to any document received from
a consumer that may be in support of a loss mitigation application, in order to
assist the consumer in the loss mitigation process. Seterus also automated its

loss mitigation application and Acknowledgment Notice process, including its
14.

15.

16.

17.

ARAN PAE AMA G ~ . 4 ots ae EA ~ ae eam
2OOHO RED A A Mie issycinmt 4 Clan 4°39 74 SFA Rane Ta af AK
SSP eM “ RAP ASE EAD ERG Sys fale phere Ua PU SARIS ofa Ab Sh

processes for tracking documents submitted by borrowers and populating and
generating the Acknowledgment Notices.

To facilitate that automation, and to try to meet the five-day requirement in 12
C.F.R. 1024.41(b)(2)(1)(B), Seterus contracted with a third-party vendorto
process all borrower documents submitted as part ofa loss mitigation
application.

Upon receipt ofa Triggering Document, the third-party vendor would
electronically capture an image of the document and “brand” the imaged
document by electronically tagging the document with the loan number, an
index code corresponding to the document type, a unique identifier for that
specific document, and the date the document was scanned directly on the
document and then upload the scanned document to Seterus’s internal
systems.

After uploading a Triggering Document to Seterus’s internal systems, the
third-party vendor would then electronically extract and validatethe data and
text from the image of the Triggering Document and transmit that data to
Seterus’s internal systems.

Seterus’s personnel wrote code for various computer software to ensure that
the third-party vendor’s computer system could communicate and share data

with Seterus’s internal loss mitigation and mortgage servicing computer
18.

19.

20.

21.

AAAA SOR ARN 8 PA ee, unk Py AN Ea SEE my . AA sam
POSO.RCE EOS Pocument 7 Fidacd TDP Sfeoeg Pane dd of d&
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPS! fale ber cua : ghee ber Geb ras

systems, andthat Seterus’s internal systems could communicate and share
data with one another.

Seterus’s Acknowledgment Notices provided consumers with a list of
documents Seterus had received and their expiration dates (“Documents we
have received”), anda list of documents Seterus still needed to evaluate the
application (“Documents still needed’’).

Seterus’s Acknowledgment Notices also provided a date by which the
borrower needed to retum any missing documents and informed the borrower
that the due date provided was based on the earliest ofa set of milestones: (1)
the date on which the documents expire; (2) the 120" day of delinquency; (3)
90 days prior to the foreclosure sale date, if any; or (4) 38 days prior to the
foreclosure sale date (ifthe application was made within 90 days of a
foreclosure sale date).

Seterus populated the fields in the Acknowledgment Notice that provided the
“Documents we have received,” “Documents still needed,” and due dates for
documents the borrower still needed to submit using the data its third-party
vendor extracted from the documents submitted by the borrower.

Seterus’s third-party vendor made numerous errors in branding, coding and
extracting data from borrower documents, and Seterus used that inaccurate

data to populate these fields in the Acknowledgment Notice.
22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

ARAN SAP ANAS PA ee et emt ot Aa IY mo. ae oh ar
POSO.RCE EOS Pocument 7 Pilad T3/TSseoeo Rane That ds
than Sad an at Rad Nat BHAA Ed POPPA of ar be ee : ghe bar Geb ras

Further, the coding on which Seterus relied to ensure its internal systems were
communicating properly with each other and with the third-party vendor’s
system was not always correct, which led to further such errors.

As aresult of its relianceon this inaccurate data and coding and the faulty
communication between various com puter systems, Seterus sent out
thousands of Acknowledgment Notices that contained one or more errors.
Certain Acknowledgment Notices inaccurately listed documents that Seterus
had received as missing, inaccurately listed documents that had not been
received as having been received, or both. This included Acknowledgment
Notices that did not request additional documents even when required
documents were missing and Acknowledgment Notices informing borrowers
that their loss mitigation applications were “complete” or “facially complete”
when required documents were missing.

Seterus also sent numerous Acknowledgment Notices that provided no due
date; inaccurate due dates, such as dates that were the same date or prior to the
date that the Acknowledgment Notice was sent; or unreasonable due dates,
such as dates on or after the foreclosure sale date.

Further, despite its express representations in the Acknowledgment Notices

that the due date was not after the date when previously submitted documents
27.

28.

29.

AMAA PP ART A Pe ae Pre AON a Pe Soe AM BE A
POO OSCE PLANS Pocument 7 Fidacd TDP Sfeoeg Pace TB of d&
on at te PE RPA TAS Pd SOPRA be ber ee 5 Nag eB Lad OUT at

would expire, Seterus sent Acknowledgment Notices that provided due dates
that were after the date when previously submitted documents would expire.
The unreasonable due dates in Seterus’s Acknowledgment Notices also
rendered other statements in the Acknowledgment Notices inaccurate. For
example, in certain instances Seterus sent Acknowledgment Notices that
provided a due date that was just one or two days before the borrower’s
scheduled foreclosure sale date. Seterus represented that as long as the
borrower provided the documents by the date indicated, he or she would be
evaluated for loss mitigation, but that representation was not always correct
when the due date was not sufficiently in advance of the scheduled foreclosure
sale date.

In other instances, the representation that the application would be evaluated if
the missing documents were submitted by the due date was inaccurate because
Seterus held foreclosure sales on the properties before the due date.
Additionally, in an effort to better assist borrowers seeking loss mitigation,
Seterus sent anew Acknowledgment Notice for each document a borrower
sent in, even though these additional Acknowledgment Notices were not
required by Regulation X. These additional Acknowledgment Notices usually

provided a new due date, which resulted in some borrowers receiving multiple
30.

31.

32.

APA PSAP! ASA PN, nt A Pr BONE ES Nae AP ah ae
POOL RE DIANA Paciiyent 4 Bian tOPSPomon Base TP af As
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE BHAA Ed PoE! bea phar cue : aghe OF Fk Sapa

Acknowledgment Notices with different due dates on the same day, or in
quick succession, some of which were inaccurate.

Seterus discovered the systemic errors in the data provided by its third-party
vendor as early as the first quarter of 2014, and took steps to attempt to
remedy the problems, but many of those attempts were either ineffective or
compounded the problem. For example, in January 2015, Seterus instituted
manual reviews in an attempt to correct the errors in its Acknowledgment
Notices but continued to rely on incorrect data from its third-party vendor to
populate its systems and to process and track the applications. Asa result,
Seterus continued to send out Acknowledgment Notices with defects, albeit at
a significantly lower defect rate.

Further, in 2014, when Seterus first realized that some consumers had
received inaccurate Acknowledgment Notices, Seterus issued “correction”
Acknowledgment Notices. Because Seterus continued to rely on the
inaccurate datafrom its vendor to generatethem, some “correction”
Acknowledgment Notices contained the same errors as the original inaccurate
Acknowledgment Notices.

On September 4, 2014, Seterus andthe New Hampshire Banking Department
entered into a settlement related to Seterus’s inaccurate Acknowledgment

Notices.
33.

34.

35.

36.

TN PENI IN AMA PA ee emt ot Aa IY mh... ao oh AD
POOL RE DIANA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian tOPSPomon Mane TR af Ad
Ba SE BP ASLP PERG Gk og Ss oPINAS fale beer cole 3 Lage OP AL A ae

On March 20, 2015, Seterus reported these issues to the Bureau.

Seterus continued to send out inaccurate Acknowledgment Notices containing
certain defects through April 2018, though the types and frequency of defects
declined over time.

Seterus took stepsto mitigate the harm caused by its inaccurate
Acknowledgment Notices by offering streamlined loan modifications, which
are modification offers made without requiring the borrower to submit any
hardship or income documentation, and waiving or foregoing foreclosure
deficiency judgments for certain borrowers who receiveda Defective
Acknowledgment Notice.

Seterus’s use of inaccurate data from its vendor, failureto provide accurate or
complete information about what documents Seterus had received from
consumers and what documents consumers still needed to submit to complete
their loss mitigation applications, failure to provide due dates, and provision
of incorrect or unreasonable due dates, delayed or deprived some borrowers of
a reasonable opportunity to get their loss mitigation applications completed
and evaluated, and resulted in some borrowers suffering improper foreclosure
activity because they were either delayed in obtaining or unable to obtain a

foreclosure hold.
37.

38.

39.

40).

Al.

2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 19 of 45

Seterus Failed to Evaluate Borrowers Who Submitted Complete
Loss Mitigation Applications for all Loss Mitigation Options Available
to the Borrower.

 

Seterus’s Loss Mitigation department was divided into two separate divisions
— Retention and Liquidation.

Seterus’s loss mitigation policies did not allow for a borrower to be reviewed
simultaneously for both retention and liquidation options.

Borrowers who failed to indicate a preference for either retention or
liquidation, and borrowers who requested to be reviewed for both options at
the same time, were told their applications could not be reviewed until they
made their intention clear about whether or not they wanted to retain the
property.

If a borrower submitted a loss mitigation application that did not indicate a
preference for either retention or liquidation, Seterus considered the document
incomplete andthe borrower was required to resubmit the application with
only one of the two review types selected.

Borrowers who indicated a preference for retention were not reviewed for
liquidation options unless they were denied a retention option and then
subsequently requested a liquidation review, usually by submitting anew
application form requesting consideration for liquidation options. If

documents in their initial retention application had expired by thetime the
42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 20 of 45

borrower was denied a retention option, the borrower may have had to submit
updated supporting documentation in addition to new documents that Seterus
required only when evaluating a borrower’s eligibility for a liquidation option.
Borrowers who indicated a preference for a liquidation option were not
reviewed for retention options unless they submitted a new loss mitigation
application requesting areview for retention options.

Seterus further divided its review of liquidation options between short sales
and deeds in lieu of foreclosure, and did not permit borrowers to be reviewed
simultaneously for both options.

Seterus Did Not Treat Liquidation Applications as “Facially Complete.”

Seterus did not treat loss mitigation applications seeking a liquidation option
as “facially complete” even when those applications met the requirements of a
“facially complete” application under Regulation X.
Seterus’s Violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act,
12 U.S.C. §§ 5531 and 5536(a)(1)(B)
The CFPA prohibits covered persons from engaging “in any unfair, deceptive,

or abusive act or practice.” 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536(a)(1)(B).

Unfair Acts and Practices

 

An act or practice is unfair if it causes or is likely to cause consumers

substantial injury that is not reasonably avoidable and ifthe substantial injury
47.

48.

49.

50.

SI.

ARAN RAPER AMAA PA ee et emt ot Aa IY mo oat eh aA
POSO.RCE EOS Racument 4 Pilad T3/TSseoeo Pane 2 tof d&
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPS! fale ber cua : ghee ab Geb ras

is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or to competition.
12 U.S.C. §5531(c).

As described in paragraphs 13 through 36, Seterus’s use of inaccurate data
from its third-party vendor and inaccurate com puter coding delayed or
deprived borrowers ofa reasonable opportunity to get their loss mitigation
applications completed and evaluated.

These acts or practices caused or were likely to cause substantial injury to
borrowers in the form of additional interest, late fees, and negative credit
reporting; failure to qualify for loss mitigation; and delayed protection from
prohibited foreclosure activities or an inability to obtain such protection at all.
These injuries were not reasonably avoidable by borrowers as borrowers could
not modify their loans without the assistance of Seterus.

These injuries were not outweighed by any countervailing benefits to
consumers or competition. Neither borrowers nor competition realized a
benefit from Seterus’s use of inaccurate data and coding to process, review,
track, and communicate information regarding loss mitigation applications.
Thus, during the Relevant Period, Seterus engaged in unfair acts and practices

in violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(c)(1), 5536(a)(1)(B).
52.

53.

54.

2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 22 of 45

Deceptive Acts and Practices

 

An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material representation or
omission that misleads, or is likely to mislead, a consumer acting reasonably
under the circumstances.

As described in paragraphs 13 through 36, Seterus sent numerous
Acknowledgment Notices during the Relevant Period that misrepresented,
directly or indirectly, expressly or by implication, that: certain loss mitigation
documents had been received; certain loss mitigation documents had not been
received; the borrower’s loss mitigation application was “complete” or
“facially complete”; that the due date for documents that had not been
received was the date set forth in the Acknowledgment Notice, and/orthe
borrower’s application would be reviewed and evaluated for loss mitigation if
the borrower submitted the missing documents by the due date set forth in the
Acknowledgment Notice. It was reasonable for borrowers to believe that the
information they received from their mortgage servicer regarding the status of
their loss mitigation application, the documents they needed to submit, and
due dates for those documents, was accurate.

Thus, during the Relevant Period, Seterus engaged in deceptive acts and

practices in violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
55.

56.

57.

58.

2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 23 of 45

Seterus’s Violations of Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41
Violations of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(b)(2)

Regulation X requires a servicer to send a(b)(2) Notice within five days of
receipt ofa loss mitigation application, which informs the borrower: (1) that
the servicer has received the application; (2) that the servicer has determined
that the application is either complete or incomplete; and (3) if the application
is incomplete, what additional documents and information the borrower must
submit to make the application complete and a reasonable date by which they
should be submitted. 12 C.F.R. §§ 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B), 1024.41(b)(2) (ii).
As described in paragraphs 13 through 36, Seterus sent numerous purported
(b)(2) Notices that failed to accurately or completely state the additional
documents and information the borrower needed to submit to make their loss
mitigation application complete.
As described in paragraphs 13 through 36, Seterus sent numerous purported
(b)(2) Notices that failed to provide a due date, and when due dates were
provided, those due dates were often inaccurate or unreasonable.
Thus, during the Relevant Period, Seterus violated 12 C.F.R. §§

1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B), 1024.41 (b)(2)(ii).
59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 24 of 45

Violations of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(b)(1)

 

Regulation X requires servicers to exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining
documents and information to complete a loss mitigation application. 12
C.F.R. § 1024.41(b)(1).

As described in paragraphs 13 through 36, Seterus sent Acknowledgment
Notices that failed to identify or incorrectly or incompletely identified the
documents and information Seterus required from the borrower to complete
their loss mitigation applications.

By sending Acknowledgment Notices that failed to accurately and completely
describe the information required to complete borrower applications, Seterus
did not exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining documents and information
necessary to complete the application.

Thus, during the Relevant Period, Seterus violated 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(b)(1).

Violations of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1)()

 

Regulation X requires a servicer to “evaluate the borrower for all loss
mitigation options availableto the borrower” within 30 days, ifthe servicer
receives a “complete” loss mitigation application more than 37 days before a
foreclosure sale. 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1).

As described in paragraphs 37 through 43, Seterus bifurcated its loss

mitigation review and would not review borrowers for both retention and
65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 25 of 45

liquidation options at the same time, nor would Seterus review borrowers
seeking liquidation for all available liquidation options.
Thus, during the Relevant Period, Seterus violated § 12 C.F.R.
1024.41(c)(1)(i).

Violations of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(2)(v)
Regulation X provides that loss mitigation applications shall be considered
“facially complete” (1) when a borrower submits all the missing documents
and information as stated in the (b)(2) Notice, or (2) when no additional
documents or information are requested in the (b)(2) Notice. 12 C.F.R. §
1024.41(c)(2)(iv).
As described in paragraph 44, Seterus did not treat liquidation applications as
facially complete even when those applications were facially complete as
defined by 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv).
By failing to treat borrowers’ liquidation applications as facially complete,
Seterus deprived those borrowers of the protections and rights specified in 12
C.F.R. § 1024.41(d), (e), (f)(2), (g), & (h).
Thus, during the Relevant Period, Seterus violated 12 C.F.R.

§ 1024.41(c)(2)(iv).
2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 26 of 45

Seterus’s Violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act,
12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A)

70. The CFPA provides that it is unlawful for any covered person “to offer or
provide to a consumer any financial product or service not in conformity with
Federal consumer financial law, or otherwise commit any act or omission in
violation of a Federal consumer financial law.” 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

71. Theterm “Federal consumer financial law” includes any rule prescribed by
the Bureau under an enumerated consumer law. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(14).
Regulation X is “Federal consumer financial law” because it is arule
prescribed by the Bureau under RESPA, which is an “enumerated consumer
law.” 12U.S.C. §5481(12)(M).

72. Thus, Seterus’s violations of Regulation X described in paragraphs 13 through
44 during the Relevant Period also constitute violations of the CFPA. 12
U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

ORDER

V.

Conduct Provisions

IT IS ORDERED, under 88 1053 and 1055 ofthe CFPA, that:

73. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly,
74.

AMAA AAPM ANAS PA ee emt ot Aa IY mo oy kar
POOL RE DIANA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian tOPSPomon Rane OF af Aw
Sn 2 SP et BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA fe be ee 3 age 4. FW

may not violate the loss mitigation procedures required by Regulation X, 12

C.F.R. § 1024.41.

In the event that Respondent resumes mortgage servicing operations, whether

the entity operates under the name Seterus or another name, Respondent will:

a.

implement policies and procedures that meet Respondent’s loss
mitigation and foreclosure protection obligations under Regulation X,
12 C.F.R. § 1024.41;

implement procedures to ensure that before a foreclosure action is taken
it is permitted under Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41, and implement
testing to ensure foreclosure protections are properly being afforded to
borrowers;

implement processes and controls to oversee and monitor its vendors
who provide services in connection with loss mitigation applications to
ensure that Respondent’s use of those vendors does not result in
violations of Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41;

implement policies and procedures to ensure borrowers are evaluated
for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower based upon a

single, timely, complete application;
e. ensure that Acknowledgment Notices accurately state the documents
and information required from borrowers to complete loss mitigation
applications; and

f. implement policies and procedures to ensurethat, once Respondent has
received the information it requires from the borrower to evaluate the
borrower’s loss mitigation application for all loss mitigation options
available to the borrower, it will provide the borrower with all
protections required by Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41.

VI.
Order to Pay Redress

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

75. Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must reserve or deposit into
a segregated deposit account $4,932,525, for the purpose of providing redress
as required by this Section (Redress Fund). The Redress Fund will be the
source from which Respondent will pay redress as follows:

a. $1,880,025 from the Redress Fund will be distributed on a pro rata
basis to the approximately 10,743 Non-Foreclosed Borrowers;
b. $2,802,500 from the Redress Fund will be distributed on a pro rata

basis to the approximately 1,121 Foreclosed Group | Borrowers; and
AAA RRR ON ae cA puss SN at ro we = ~~
SOO Dee m AWA Pree ey ceed of Wiad 4°94 6 FS OO Dean TO AF AR
seb ek eae St Le bead rb ed Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas Sos PAR et dee wee ea PES rk OE ge

Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPS! fale ber cua : ghee ark Geb ras

c. $250,000 from the Redress Fund will be distributed on a pro rata basis
to the 2 Foreclosed Group 2 Borrowers.

76. Within 45 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive written
plan for providing redress consistent with this Consent Order (Redress Plan).
The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct Respondentto revise it. Ifthe
Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Redress Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the revised Redress Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 30 days. After receiving notification that the
Enforcement Director has made a determination of non-objection to the
Redress Plan, Respondent must implement and adhere to the steps,
recom mendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Redress Plan.

77. The Redress Plan must:

a. Specify how Respondent will identify the Affected Consumers entitled
to redress for the purpose of providing redress under paragraph 75 of
this Consent Order;

b. Includethe form ofthe letter (Redress Notice) and envelopeto be sent
notifying Affected Consumers whoare entitled to redress of their right

to redress; the Redress Notice must include a statement that the
ARAN PAE AMA G Py nt A ee AA IAA Soe ON hae
SOOO EER AoA Miners t fF Pian TFA S Pea Bia RO At AR
Sa tet BA AEN Pa POoEURSAS fae phe oo 5 ghee we Gab ras

payment is made in accordance with the terms of this Consent Order;

Respondent must not include in any envelope containing a Redress

Notice any materials other than the approved Redress Notices and

redress checks, unless Respondent has written confirmation from the

Enforcement Director that the Bureau does not object to the inclusion of

such additional materials;

Describe the process for providing redress to Affected Consumers

entitledto redress, and must include the following requirements:

i. Priorto sending redress checks and Redress Notices, Respondent
must make reasonable attempts to obtain a current address for each
Affected Consumer entitledto redress using, at aminimum, the
National Change of Address System (NCAS);

li. Respondent must mail aredress check andthe Redress Notice to
each Affected Consumer entitled to redress, or their authorized
representative;

iil. Respondent must sendthe redress check by United States Postal
Service first-class mail, address correction service requested, to the
most recent address for each Affected Consumer entitled to

redress;
AAA PRR AAA og
SOARED AVA
Ba Sf tn ST et “

iV.

Vi.

~ . os emt ot Aa IY me a ham
Pocument 7 Pilad T3/TSseoeo Pace Stoof d&
BA AEN Pa PRLS fal phar awe Y CARS Ot wah MPa

Respondent must send the redress check by certified mailto the
Foreclosed Group 2 Borrowers;

For Foreclosed Group | Borrowers, ifno updated address is
provided by NCAS, Respondent must make reasonable attempts to
obtain a current address for such customers by skip-tracing and/or
by emailing them at their last known email address. Ifno address
can be located by such means, Respondent may mail the check to
the last known mailing address;

For all other Affected Consumers entitled to redress, ifno updated
address is provided by NCAS, Respondent must mail the check to
the last known address. Ifa redress check is returnedto
Respondent as undeliverable, Respondent must make additional
reasonable attempts to obtain a current address for such consumers
using acommercially available database other than the NCAS or
by skip-tracing and/or by emailing them at their last known email
address. Respondent must promptly re-mail all returned redress
checks and the Redress Notice to each Affected Consumer’s
current addresses, if any, obtained through such reasonable

attempts;
AAAS FRR ON ~~ tA eee y oa LO rae
2OOHO RED A A Mie issycinmt 4 Pian TFA S Pea
Cee Bhd - “ LAO RSEEf HOG Pee rar cud

vil. Ifaredress check that Respondent has attempted to send to an
Affected Consumer entitledto redress, as specified under
subparagraphs iv through vi, is retumed to Respondent,
Respondent must retain the redress amount of such consumer fora
period of one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date the
check was mailed or re-mailed, whichever is later, during which
period such amount may be claimed by such consumer upon
appropriate proof of identity; and

vill. Any redress amount remaining unclaimed after one hundred and
eighty (180) days from the date the check was mailed or re-mailed,
whichever is later, will be turned over to the Bureau as set forth in
paragraph 80;

d. Provide that Respondent shall pay all costs of administering the Redress

Plan as required by this Section; and

e. Set forth all procedures, deadlines, and timeframes for completing each

step of the Redress Plan, consistent with the terms of this Consent Order.
78. Respondent must mail all redress checks and Redress Notices within 30 days
after the Enforcement Director has made a determination of non-objection to

the Redress Plan.
AA PEE A A Py . oA pay ee re ee ax me ~ a
SOO Dee m AWA Pree ey ceed of Clad T° F4 OFAN Meee SR AL AR
ee eh fae ore bead rd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTEAP ER OF YF Pes i ete PY ati test OS oS fer ga}
on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd S oPPeka of as Pa ee! BDA Ne Wee Gab SP

79. Within 60 days of completing all aspects of the Redress Plan, Respondent

80.

81.

must submit a Redress Plan Report to the Enforcement Director, which must
include Respondent’s review and assessment of Respondent’s compliance

with the terms of the Redress Plan, including:

a. thetotal number of Affected Consumers in each of the categories listed
in paragraph 75 above;

b. the procedures used to issue and track redress payments;

c. the amount and status of all unclaimed redress payments; and

d. the work of independent consultants that Respondent has used, ifany,

to assist and review its execution of the Redress Plan.

After completing the Redress Plan, ifthe amount of claimed redress provided
to Affected Consumers entitled to redress is less than the Redress Fund,
within 30 days of the completion of the Redress Plan, Respondent must pay to
the Bureau, by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent, and
according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions, the difference between the
amountof claimed redress provided to Affected Consumers and the Redress
Fund.

The Bureau may usethese remaining funds to pay additional redress to
Affected Consumers described in paragraph 75. Ifthe Bureau determines, in

its sole discretion, that additional redress is wholly or partially impracticable
82.

APA AEA AMA ~ a ems Na EP ~ ~ a
SAO AL Re ED LAMY Mie issycinmt 4 Clan 4°39 74 SFA Sere BA
CAPA Ee Pe La APES PEE HOG Pel raped Prat 3

or otherwise inappropriate, or if funds remain after the additional redress is
completed, the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S. Treasury
as disgorgement. Respondent will have noright to challenge any actions that
the Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.

Respondent may not condition the payment of any redress to any Affected

Consumer on that Affected Consumer waiving any right.

VIL.
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

83.

84.

85.

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason ofthe
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, andtaking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $500,000 to the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in compliance
with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) ofthe CFPA,

12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
ARAN PAE AMA G ~ . 4 ots ae EA ~ ak am
2OOHO RED A A Miners t fF Cilae 439F4S (OA Deeae BE Af Ag
Sa tet = “= BA AEN Pa POoEURSAS fae phe oo y CALS out Let AP ae

86. Respondent must, for all purposes, treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how the

Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this

Consent Order.

87. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondentis entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry ofa

final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amountof the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the

amountofthe civil money penalty imposed in this action.

VU.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

88.

89.

90.

91.

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become dueand payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part ofthe funds may be retumed
to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer identifying numbers, which may be used for
purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of
this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry ofa final judgment, consent order, or settlement in
a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement

Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
PPA PR ER AN ae toa pens ON at OE oy aay ~ _
2OOHO RED A A Miners t fF Clan 4°39 74 SFA Deas 2 Af Jak
Ba Sf tn ST et = “= BA AEN Pa POPS! fale ber cua YO TALS 2 Ya Pa

notification must indicate the amountof redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describethe consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

IX.

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

92.

93.

94.

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution of
a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to
this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by
or against Respondent; or a changein Respondent’s name or address.
Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days before the
development, but in any case, no laterthan 14 days after the development.
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must designate at least one
telephone number and email, physical, and postal address as points of contact,
which the Bureau may use to communicate with Respondent.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective

Date, Respondent must submit to the Enforcement Director an accurate
mse a corny mile EF SE FD uaa, DO «af AR
Bat LE De vt Peete cae oer a PPR PPE AES Rf aes TARE NE ALi
poe LOGUE IGSHEE PHO PAY parcudu Pa Oo OT So

written compliance progress report (Compliance Report), which, at a

minimum:

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;

b. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Redress Plan; and

c. Attaches acopy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under

Section X, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

X.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that,

95. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.

96. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well as

to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
97,

98.

99.

AA PR AER AMA ~~ . oA pansy ee re ee ax ye ~ ~~
SOO Dee m AWA Pree ey ceed of Wiad 4°94 6 FS OO Daan GO AF AR
seb ek eae St Le bead rb ed Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas Sos PAR et dee ee at at PO

Bn ad athe KP LP RSE BHAA Ed PoE! bea phar cue Y CARS Ot Mat OP

representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter ofthe
Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section IX, any future board members and executive officers, as
well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent

Order under this Section.

XI.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that

Respondent must create, or if already created, must retain for the duration of

the Consent Order, the following business records:
2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 40 of 45

a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissionsto
the Bureau.

b. all documents and records pertaining to the Redress Plan, described in

Section VI above.

100. Respondent must retain the documents identified in paragraph 99 for the
duration of the Consent Order.
101. Respondent must makethe documents identified in paragraph 99 available to

the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XII.

Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

102. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must provide
all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents relating to this
Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Seterus, Inc., File No.
2020-BCFP-0024,” and send them by overnight courier or first-class mailto
the below address and contemporaneously by email to

Enforcement Compliance@cfpb.gov:

 
AAR PL PREP Am wy toa puss SN at oy a ~ =
2OOHO RED A A Miners t fF Clan 4°39 74 SFA Beane At af fa
Ba Sf tn ST et “= BA AEN Pa POPS! fale ber cua : ghee SPob Geb ras

Assistant Director for Enforcement
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement
1700 G Street, N.W.

Washington D.C. 20552

XIHI.

Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, to monitor Respondent’s compliance

with this Consent Order:

103. Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-privileged
information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which must be
made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those requirements.

104. Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employeeor other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.
APA PR OAR RA Rem 8 »~ : of ‘ » .
APLON Per ASA PP sey en meyyoaeed of Slaw AOD Po GS PER EEP
ee eh fae ore bead rd PM CE GE Paes rhe of Pe EERO EG Pe etd eke
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed ited PN eS

105. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil

investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory process.

XIV.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

106.

107.

108.

Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) ifhe or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement

Director must be in writing.

XV.

Administrative Provisions

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau, or any other governmental agency, from taking any other action

against Respondent, except as described in paragraph 109.
109.

110.

11.

PPA PR ER AN ae cA puss SN at ro te = _
2OOHO RED A A Miners t fF Clan 4°39 74 SFA Rane AQ af AS
Ba Sf tn ST et “= BA AEN Pa POPS! fale ber cua : ghee Sree Gel ras

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability for
law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the Consent
Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final Consent
Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and expressly does
not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract binding the Bureau or
the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except to
the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated

agent.
112.

113.

114,

115.

ARAN SAP ANAS PA ee emt ot Aa IY mh... te har
POSO.RCE EOS Pocument 7 Pilacd TEPTRseOea Pane 44 af 45
than Sad an at Rad Nat te AEN Ed POPPA of ar be ee : gi Srp kb Sra

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign, after the Effective Date, all or
part of its operations that are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must,
as a condition of sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee or
assignee to comply with all applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amountof civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve Respondent
wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not contest that
court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written

communications, discussions, or understandings.
2020-BCFP-0024 Document1 Filed 12/18/2020 Page 45 of 45

116. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT ISSOORDERED, this | (9 dayof e@cemSe-, 2020.

r
Kathleen L. Kraninger 0
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

 

   

45
