Release Number 7107-15

 

January 21, 2015

Federal Court in New York Imposes a $2.16 Million Penalty and Permanent Trading Bans
against Michael A. Kardonick, Gary R. Shapoff, and Atwood & James for Forex Options
Fraud and Misappropriation

Kardonick and Shapoff Are Serving Time in Prison after Pleading Guilty
to Related Federal Criminal Charges

Washington DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced that a federal court in
Rochester, New York issued a consent Order against Atwood & James, Ltd. and Atwood & James, SA (collectively,
Atwood), which operated out of New York and Brazil, and Michael A. Kardonick, who maintained multiple residences in
Brooklyn; New York; Pembrook Pines, Florida; and Rio de Janeiro, and Gary R. Shapoff of Pittsford, New York. Kardonick
and Shapoff are currently incarcerated in Federal custody. The court’s Order stems from a CFTC civil Complaint that
charged the Defendants with fraudulently soliciting retail clients to trade foreign currency (forex) options and charged
Atwood and Kardonick with misappropriating client funds (see CFTC Press Release and Complaint 5605-09, January 27,
2009). None of the Defendants has ever been registered with the CFTC, as required.

The consent Order, issued by the Honorable Charles Siragusa of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of New
York, assesses a civil monetary penalty against the Defendants of $2,164,059.57, recognizes the criminal restitution
award, and permanently bans Atwood, Shapoff, and Kardonick from registering, trading, soliciting and engaging in any
CFTC-regulated activity.

The CFTC Complaint alleged that, from at least 2001 to 2008, Defendants fraudulently solicited funds from members of
the general public located throughout the world, including the U.S. and the United Kingdom, to trade forex options.
Through an internet website and other means, the Defendants made extraordinary and false claims regarding, among
other things, Atwood’s trading abilities.

In fact, according to the Order, Atwood and Kardonick were not successful traders; no trading accounts in the name of
Atwood or for the benefit of Atwood clients have been located; and, there was no evidence that Atwood had or has a
relationship with a clearing firm. The only known trading accounts were Kardonick’s personal trading accounts, which
from 2003 through September 2008 sustained net losses of approximately $1.7 million trading commodity futures and
options.

The court’s Order also finds that Kardonick and Shapoff failed to disclose to clients that both have criminal convictions for
mail and wire fraud, and that Shapoff was the subject of two CFTC reparations actions in which the allegations included
misrepresentation, misuse of customer funds, nondisclosure, and order execution.

Related Criminal Acton

In a related criminal action brought by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of New York, Kardonick and
Shapoff pleaded guilty to charges of tax evasion and money laundering and are serving prison sentences of 120 months
for Kardonick and 60 months for Shapoff.

A criminal restitution order of $2,164,059.57 was issued against Kardonick and Shapoff, jointly and severally.

The CFTC cautions victims that restitution orders may not result in the recovery of money lost because the wrongdoers
may not have sufficient funds or assets. The CFTC will continue to fight vigorously for the protection of customers and to
ensure the wrongdoers are held accountable.

The CFTC appreciates the cooperation of the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Western District of New York, the FBI Field Western
District of New York field office, the Brazilian Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios, and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority in
this matter.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are James H. Holl lll, Katherine M. Driscoll, Kara
Mucha, Michelle Bougas, Rick Glaser, and Gretchen L. Lowe.

*K OK OK OOK OK OK
CFTC’s Foreign Currency (Forex) Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Foreign Currency Trading (Forex) Fraud Advisory, which states that the CFTC has witnessed a sharp rise in Forex trading
scams in recent years and helps customers identify this potential fraud.
Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.

 

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: January 21, 2015
