cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Takes Action Against Student-Loan Debt-
Relief Business and Its Owners for Taking Illegal Advance Fees

JUL 08, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) settled with
Timemark, Inc., a company based in Deerfield Beach, Florida, that provides debt-relief
services to consumers with federal student-loan debt, and with its owners and officers,
Timothy Lenihan, Sr., Mark Nagler, and Casey Gassaway. The Bureau alleged that the
defendants charged illegal advance fees in violation of the Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR)
to consumers who were seeking to renegotiate, settle, reduce, or alter the terms of their
loans. If entered by the court, the proposed order memorializing the settlement will
permanently ban defendants from providing debt-relief services and impose a judgment
totaling approximately $3.8 million in consumer redress and civil money penalties.

The Bureau's complaint, which was filed in federal district court for the Southern District of
Florida, alleged that from 2016 through October 2019, the defendants used telemarketing
campaigns to convince more than 7,300 consumers to pay up to $699 in fees to file
paperwork to reduce or eliminate their monthly payments for their federal student loans,
through loan consolidation, forgiveness, or income-driven repayment plans. The U.S.
Department of Education, however, offers these options to student loan borrowers for free.
Moreover, under the TSR, it is illegal to request or receive any fees for debt-relief services
sold through telemarketing before the terms of the debt are altered or settled, and the
consumer has made at least one payment pursuant to the new arrangement. The Bureau
alleges that the defendants violated the TSR because they requested and received
payments from consumers within a few days, or at the latest, within 30 days of their
enrollment—before the terms of the debts were altered.

If entered by the court, under the terms of the proposed order, the defendants would be
permanently banned from providing debt-relief services. The order would impose a
judgment on the defendants, jointly and severally, in the amount of about $3.8 million for
consumer redress. Full payment of this amount will be suspended if, within 10 days after the
order is entered, Timemark pays $5,000, Nagler pays $7,000, and Gassaway pays $10,000.
The full amount of redress was suspended because of defendants’ limited ability to pay
more based on sworn financial statements. The defendants would also be required to each
pay a $1 civil money penalty, in light of their financial circumstances. Whenever the Bureau
collects a civil money penalty through an enforcement action, that penalty is deposited into
the Bureau's Civil Penalty Fund. Assuming continued available funds, the Bureau will work
to provide full redress to eligible harmed consumers from this fund.

The CFPB complaint is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_timemark-et-al_complaint_2020-

 

The proposed stipulated judgment is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_timemark-et-al_stipulated-final-
judgement-order_2020-07.pdf ll (cfob.gov/documents/8982/cfpb_timemark-et-al_stipulate
d-final-judgement-order_2020-07.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
