Case 9:20-cv-81057-RS Document6 Entered on FLSD Docket 08/12/2020 Page 1 of 14

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
WEST PALM BEACH DIVISION

Case No. 9:20-CV-81057

BUREAU OF CONSUMER
FINANCIAL PROTECTION,

Plaintiff,

TIMEMARK SOLUTIONS, INC., et
al.,

Defendants.
/

STIPULATED FINAL JUDGMENT AND ORDER

This matter is before the Court on the Parties’ Joint Motion for Entry of Stipulated Final
Judgment and Order (the “Motion’’) [DE 3], filed herein on July 7, 2020. The Court has carefully

reviewed the Motion and the record and is otherwise fully advised in the premises.
The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) commenced this civil action on
July 7, 2020 to obtain injunctive and monetary relief and civil penalties from Timemark
Solutions, Inc., Timothy Lenihan, Sr., Mark Nagler, and Casey Gassaway. The Complaint alleges
violations of the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, 15 U.S.C. §§
6101 et seg., and its implementing rule, the Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR), 16 C.F.R. Part 310,
as well as violations of Section 1036(a)(1)(A) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act (CFPA),
12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A), in connection with Defendants’ telemarketing and offering and sale of

debt-relief services to consumers with federal student-loan debt.
Case 9:20-cv-81057-RS Document6 Entered on FLSD Docket 08/12/2020 Page 2 of 14

The Bureau and Defendants agree to entry of this Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
(Order) to settle and resolve all matters in dispute arising from the conduct alleged in the

Complaint.

FINDINGS

1. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter of this action.

2. Defendants neither admit nor deny the allegations in the Complaint, except as
specifically stated herein. For purposes of this Order, Defendants admit the facts necessary to
establish the Court’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of this action.

3. The Complaint alleges claims upon which relief may be granted.

4. In the course of telemarketing and offering or providing debt-relief services from 2016
through October 2019, Defendants requested and received payment of fees or consideration from
consumers for such services before (1) they had renegotiated, settled, reduced, or otherwise
altered the terms of at least one debt pursuant to a setthkement agreement, debt management plan,
or other such valid contractual agreement executed by the consumer; and (2) the consumer had
made at least one payment pursuant to that agreement.

5. The relief provided in this Order is appropriate and available pursuant to sections 1054

and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5564 and 5565.

6. Defendants waive all rights to seek judicial review or otherwise challenge or contest the
validity of this Order and any claim they may have under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 28
U.S.C. § 2412, concerning the prosecution of this action to the date of this Order. Each Party
agrees to bear its own costs and expenses, including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees.

7. Entry of this Order is in the public interest.
DEFINITIONS
The following definitions apply to this Order:
8. “Affected Consumer” means any consumer who paid Corporate Defendant
for a Debt-Relief Service from 2016 through October 2019.
9. “Assisting Others” includes, but is not limited to:
a. formulating or providing, or arranging for the formulation or provision of,

any advertising or marketing material, including, but not limited to, any

2
Pa ee PROBA acs SPREOPR MC Renee DO RM astneneh awn 07
Yo meets AAUP EEL mas Sb Pde Fn PSOE ey by Le PUTER PEA PRE he
Verio 2 Arr OY rc LU PoE RAUL AS Rebbe bieas Gaba db

se
oD

telephone sales script, direct mail solicitation, or the text of any Internet
website, email, or other electronic communication;

b. formulating or providing, or arranging for the formulation or provision of,
any marketing support material or service, including web or Internet
Protocol addresses or domain name registration for any Internet websites,
affiliate marketing services, or media placement services;

c. consulting in any form whatsoever;

d. providing names of, or contributing to the generation of, potential
customers;

e. participating in or providing services related to the offering, sale, or servicing
of a product, or the collection of payments for a product;

f. acting or serving as an owner, officer, director, manager, principal,

partner, or limited partner of any entity; and

g. investing or loaning money.

10. “Corporate Defendant” means Timemark Solutions, Inc., and its successors and
assigns.

11. “Debt-Relief Service” means any program or service represented, directly or by
implication, to renegotiate, settle, or in any way alter the terms of payment or other terms of the
debt between a person and one or more unsecured creditors or debt collectors, including, but not
limited to, a reduction in the balance, interest rate, or fees owed by a person to an unsecured
creditor or debt collector.

12. “Defendants” means the Corporate Defendant and all of the Individual Defendants,
individually, collectively, or in any combination.

13. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Order is entered by the Court.

14. “Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of Enforcement

for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or his or her delegate.

15. “Individual Defendants” means Timothy Lenihan, Sr., Mark Nagler, and Casey
Gassaway, collectively, or in any combination, and each of them by any other names by which
they might be known.

16. “Person” means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association

3
. on aes . ~ ome XPS PK nd ARIA MIAN Oe A EAA

aoe Oofey 8 2S Pimecprrenrt § r AA EL SPS Packet ORiT OPO Bane A otid

tA ~ A WAS at taf CU PAA LRA GaP PU RU EUR Oe La ec PU CALAN SP OASE +
be

(incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.
17. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of one or more
consumers or an enforcement action by another governmental agency brought against any

Defendant based on substantially the same facts as described in the Complaint.

CONDUCT RELIEF I
Permanent Ban on Debt-Relief Services

IT IS ORDERED that:

18. Defendants, whether acting directly or indirectly, are permanently restrained from:
a. advertising, marketing, promoting, offering for sale, selling, or providing any
Debt-Relief Service;
b. Assisting Others in advertising, marketing, promoting, offering for sale, selling,
or providing any Debt-Relief Service; and
c. receiving any remuneration or other consideration from, holding any ownership
interest in, providing services to, or working in any capacity for any Person
engaged in or assisting in advertising, marketing, promoting, offering for sale,
selling, or providing any Debt-Relief Service.
Nothing in this Order shall be read as an exception to this Paragraph.
II

Customer Information

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

19. Defendants, and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys and all other
Persons in active concert or participation with any of them who receive actual notice of this
Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, may not:

a. disclose, use, or benefit from customer information, including the name,
address, telephone number, email address, social security number, other
identifying information, or any data that enables access to a customer’s account
(including a credit card, bank account, or other financial account), that Defendants
obtained before the Effective Date in connection with any Debt- Relief Service;

b. attempt to collect, sell, assign, or otherwise transfer any right to collect payment

from any consumer who purchased or agreed to purchase a Debt-Relief Service
4
at
erat
cD
eed
J
A
wx!
neers,

‘ee oe OP a i z Ca ~ fi a ty ot rs ~~ yan “i 7
Pars Packet AGT OPA Mane Bat tA
ed ssid POCKET Use fle rage bo
Rene BAUR WC Bal ei rm aS
a

from Corporate Defendant.
However, customer information may be disclosed if requested by a government agency or
required by law, regulation, or court order.
lil
Order to Pay Redress
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

20. A judgment for monetary relief is entered in favor of the Bureau and against
Defendants, jointly and severally, in the amount of $3,784,360 for the purpose of providing
redress to Affected Consumers; however, full payment of this judgment will be suspended upon
satisfaction of the obligations in Paragraph 21 of this Section and Paragraphs 34-38 and 40 of
Section VI and subject to Section IV of this Order.

21. Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Defendants must pay to the Bureau, by wire
transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent, and according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions,
the following amounts, in partial satisfaction of the judgment as ordered in Paragraph 20 of this
Section:

a. Corporate Defendant must pay $5,000;
b. Individual Defendant Mark Nagler must pay $7,000;
c. Individual Defendant Casey Gassaway must pay $10,000.

22. With regard to any redress that Defendants pay under this Section, if Defendants
receive, directly or indirectly, any reimbursement or indemnification from any source,
including but not limited to payment made under any insurance policy, or if Defendants secure
a tax deduction or tax credit with regard to any federal, state, or local tax, Defendants must: (a)
immediately notify the Enforcement Director in writing, and (b) within 10 days of receiving the
funds or monetary benefit, Defendants must transfer to the Bureau the full amount of such
funds or monetary benefit (Additional Payment) to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent
according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions. After the Bureau receives the Additional
Payment, the amount of the suspended judgment referenced in Paragraph 20 will be reduced by
the amount of the Additional Payment and the Additional Payment will be applied toward
satisfaction of the monetary judgment entered in Paragraph 20.

23. Any funds received by the Bureau in satisfaction of this judgment will be deposited
into a fund or funds administered by the Bureau or the Bureau’s agent according to applicable

5
at
erat
cD
eed
J
A
wx!
neers,

SH SE alee PACO HS
m=) APS PNackeartr 98/4
heh’ EUR Lae.

a ot a ro a 7 a ¥
PION Bane &atia
dated Gel le Pv RRS

ev

statutes and regulations to be used for redress for injured consumers, including, but not limited
to, refund of moneys, restitution, damages or other monetary relief, and for any attendant

expenses for the administration of any such redress.

24. If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that providing redress to
consumers is wholly or partially impracticable or if funds remain after the administration of
redress is completed, the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S. Treasury as
disgorgement. Defendants will have no right to challenge the Bureau’s choice of remedies
under this Section, and will have no right to contest the manner of distribution chosen by the
Bureau.

25. Payment of redress to any Affected Consumer under this Order may not be
conditioned on that Affected Consumer waiving any right.

IV

Effect of Misrepresentation or Omission Regarding Financial Condition

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

26. The suspension of the monetary judgment entered in Section III of this Order is
expressly premised on the truthfulness, accuracy, and completeness of Defendants’ financial
statements and supporting documents submitted to the Bureau, as follows, which Defendants
assert are truthful, accurate, and complete, and which include:

a. The Financial Statement of Corporate Defendant signed on May 14, 2020
and submitted to the Bureau on and about May 18, 2020;

b. The Financial Statement of Individual Defendant Mark Nagler signed on
May 14, 2020 and submitted to the Bureau on and about May 18, 2020;

c. The Declaration of Individual Defendant Mark Nagler signed on June 24,
2020 and submitted to the Bureau on and about June 26, 2020;

d. The Financial Statement of Individual Defendant Timothy Lenihan signed
on May 31, 2020 and submitted to the Bureau on and about June 1, 2020;
J
A
wx!

neers,

a RPS eee er eter is
“1 SPY Docket O81; } ag
heh’ RUA Wie el aie F CAA
a

rae)
a
a)
om
er
re
me
oo
v
Pred
ery
sd
S
a]
a
e)
rr
re
es
are
te
we
r
i
a

e. The Declaration of Individual Defendant Timothy Lenihan signed on June
26, 2020 and submitted to the Bureau on and about June 26, 2020;

f. The Financial Statement of Individual Defendant Casey Gassaway signed on
May 12, 2020 and submitted to the Bureau on and about May 20, 2020; and

g. The Declaration of Individual Defendant Casey Gassaway signed on June
24, 2020 and submitted to the Bureau on and about June 26, 2020.

27. If upon motion by the Bureau, the Court determines that any Defendant has failed to
disclose any material asset or that any of his financial statements or oral testimony contain any
material misrepresentation or omission, including materially misstating the value of any asset,
the Court shall terminate the suspension of the monetary judgment entered in Section III and
without further adjudication, shall reinstate the judgment entered in Section III of this Order and
the full judgment set forth in that Section with respect to that Defendant shall be immediately
due and payable, less any amounts paid to the Bureau under Section III of this Order.

28. If the Court terminates the suspension of the monetary judgment under this Section,
the Bureau will be entitled to interest on the judgment, computed from the date of entry of this
Order, at the rate prescribed by 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as amended, on any outstanding amounts not
paid.

29. Provided, however, that in all other respects this Order shall remain in full force and
effect unless otherwise ordered by the Court; and, provided further, that proceedings instituted
under this provision would be in addition to, and not in lieu of any other civil or criminal
remedies as may be provided by law, including any other proceedings that the Bureau may
initiate to enforce this Order.

V
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

30. Under Section 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law alleged in the Complaint and taking into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. §
5565(c)(3), a judgment for a civil money penalty is entered in favor of the Bureau and against
each Defendant, in the amount of $1. This amount is based on each Defendant’s limited ability

to pay as attested to in his financial statements listed in Section IV above.

7

IN ~ my .
TOPaIAOY Manco FF or 4
Sr de oe es oh
wad _ “
Y
‘ry
a
ee 3

von
er
re
A
oo
v
Pred
Pr
ube
-
reed
Cad
i)
w)
cat
rr
re
vey
oe
we
te
we
o
:
a
2
nw?
—

anny ee oP _~ i : _ — fa ty ot rs a= on ie a
mE QPS Packet ARIPO aorn Dana 8 at ia
fendi EOUNEE AY ll ld FUERA & Po
a

31. Within 10 days of the Effective Date, each Defendant must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in compliance with the

Bureau’s wiring instructions.

32. The civil money penalty paid under this Order will be deposited in the Civil Penalty
Fund of the Bureau as required by Section 1017(d) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

33. Defendants must treat the civil money penalty paid under this Order as a penalty paid
to the government for all purposes. Regardless of how the Bureau ultimately uses those funds,
Defendants may not:

a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax

benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Order; or

b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification from
any source, including but not limited to payment made under any insurance
policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this Order.

Individual Defendants agree that the civil penalty imposed by the Order represents a civil
penalty owed to the United States Government, is not compensation for actual pecuniary loss,
and, thus, as to Individual Defendants, it is not subject to discharge under the Bankruptcy Code
under 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(7).

VI

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

34. In the event of any default on Defendants’ obligations to make payment under this
Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as amended, will accrue on any outstanding
amounts not paid from the date of default to the date of payment, and will immediately become
due and payable.

35. Defendants relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid under this
Order to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be returned to
Defendants.

36. The facts alleged in the Complaint will be taken as true and be given collateral
estoppel effect, without further proof, in any proceeding based on the entry of the Order, or in

any subsequent civil litigation by or on behalf of the Bureau, including in a proceeding to
we
a
a
oo
v
Pred
‘Pr
ube
-
ws
a]
a
ere
w)
2
rr
re
es
are
we
te
we
o
:
a
a
a)
—

tated GAP rm aS
we

enforce its rights to any payment or monetary judgment under this Order, such as a
nondischargeability complaint in any bankruptcy case.

37. The facts alleged in the Complaint establish all elements necessary to sustain an
action by the Bureau under Section 523(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §
523(a)(2)(A), and for such purposes this Order will have collateral estoppel effect against each
Defendant, even in such Defendant’s capacity as debtor-in-possession.

38. Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Defendants, unless they already have done so, must furnish
to the Bureau their taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be used for purposes of
collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of this Order.

39. Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, Order, or settlement in a Related
Consumer Action, Defendants must notify the Enforcement Director of the final judgment,
Order, or settlement in writing. That notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that
Defendants paid or are required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of
consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid. To preserve the deterrent effect of the
civil money penalty in any Related Consumer Action, Defendants may not argue that
Defendants are entitled to, nor may Defendants benefit by, any offset or reduction of any
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the civil money penalty
paid in this action or because of any payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty
Fund. If the court in any Related Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of
compensatory monetary remedies imposed against Defendants based on the civil money penalty
paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund,
Defendants must, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting such offset or reduction,
notify the Bureau and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a
payment will not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the

amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

40. Upon written request, any consumer reporting agency must furnish consumer reports
to the Bureau concerning any Individual Defendant under Section 604(a)(1) of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1681 b(a)(1), which may be used for purposes of collecting and

reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of this Order.

Pay BR 3 PAR Te OS PRR OS o~ ~~ oe
mE RY Pinelat ASITOPEHON Bane OG nt te
5 Sos of Fe te ke Bete LF Fok ye a SE > ee s BRO
hee LOLA Ae cl a ‘ ne boat

SS
om y
or”
4
rr
we
nw
nan
wet
if
aa
a
2
iD
rt
ere,
Ooo
ft
ee
D
D
fe
o
e}
-
r
A
vo
L
a
”

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS VII
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

41. Defendants must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect compliance
obligations arising under this Order, including but not limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale,
merger, or other action that would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation
or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to
this Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by or against Defendants; or a
change in any Defendant’s name or address. Defendants must provide this notice at least 30 days
before the development or as soon as practicable after the learning about the development,
whichever is sooner.

42. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Defendant must:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal address
as points of contact, which the Bureau may use to communicate with such
Defendant;

b. identify all businesses for which such Defendant is the majority owner, or that
Defendant directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names, telephone
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses;

c. describe the activities of each such business, including the products and services
offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales;

d. identify such Individual Defendant’s telephone numbers and all email, Internet,
physical, and postal addresses, including all residences;

e. describe in detail such Individual Defendant’s involvement in any business for
which he performs services in any capacity or which he wholly or partially
owns, including such Individual Defendant’s title, role, responsibilities,
participation, authority, control, and ownership.

43. Defendants must report any change in the information required to be submitted under
Paragraph 44 at least 30 days before the change or as soon as practicable after learning about the

change, whichever is sooner.

10
44. Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective Date,
each Defendant must submit to the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance
progress report sworn to under penalty of perjury (Compliance Report), which, at a minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and describes in
detail the manner and form in which such Defendant has complied with each
such paragraph and subparagraph of this Order; and

b. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section VII,

unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

Vill

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

45. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Defendant must submit to the Enforcement
Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order, sworn under penalty of perjury.

46. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Corporate Defendant, and each Individual
Defendant, for any business for which he is the majority owner or which he directly or indirectly
controls, must deliver a copy of this Order to each of its board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and representatives
who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Order.

47. For 5 years from the Effective Date, Corporate Defendant, and each Individual
Defendant, for any business for which he is the majority owner or which he directly or indirectly
controls, must deliver a copy of this Order to any business entity resulting from any change in
structure referred to in Section VII, any future board members and executive officers as well as
to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and representatives who will
have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Order before they assume their
responsibilities.

48. Each Defendant must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of
a copy of this Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures comply with the requirements of

the E-Sign Act, 15 US.C. § 7001 et

11
seq., within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Order under this Section.

IX
Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

49. Defendants must create, for at least 10 years from the Effective Date, the following
business records, including for any business for which Individual Defendants, individually or
collectively with any other Defendant, is a majority owner or which he directly or indirectly
controls: all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each provision
of this Order, including all submissions to the Bureau. Defendants must retain these documents for
at least 10 years after creation and make them available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

50. Corporate Defendant must maintain, for at least 5 years from the Effective Date
or 5 years after creation, whichever is longer:

a. for each individual Affected Consumer and his or her enrollment in a Debt-Relief
Service: the consumer’s name, address, phone number, email address; amount
paid, description of the Debt-Relief Service purchased, the date on which the
Debt-Relief Service was purchased and, if applicable, the date and reason
consumer left the program;

b. accounting records showing the gross and net revenues generated by
any Debt-Relief Service;

c. any and all documentation required to complete the Bureau’s individual and

corporate financial disclosure forms; and

d. all consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received directly or
indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses to those complaints
or requests.

Corporate Defendant must make these materials available to the Bureau upon the
Bureau’s request.

51. Individual Defendants must maintain, for at least 5 years from the Effective Date or 5
years after creation, whichever is longer, financial records, including, but not limited to, individual
and corporate tax returns, credit reports, any and all documentation required to complete the

Bureau’s individual and corporate financial disclosure forms, and accounting records showing

12
gross and net revenues, all costs incurred in generating revenues, and the resulting net profit or
loss. Individual Defendants must make these materials available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s
request.
Xx
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

52. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Defendants must provide all
submissions, requests, communications, or other documents relating to this Order in writing, with
the subject line, “CFPB v. Timemark Solutions Inc., et al., Case No. 9:20-CV-81057” and send
them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by
email to Enforcement_Compliance @cfpb. gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection ATTENTION:
Office of Enforcement 1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552

XI

Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

53. Defendants must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity and location
of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected Consumer. Defendants must provide such
information in their or their agents’ possession or control within 14 days of receiving a written
request from the Bureau.

XII
Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that to monitor Defendants’ compliance with this Order,
including the financial representations upon which the monetary judgment was partially suspended:
54. Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Defendants must submit
additional compliance reports or other requested information, which must be sworn under penalty
of perjury; provide sworn testimony; or produce documents.

55. For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with Defendants,

13
Case 9:20-cv-81057-RS Document 6 Entered on FLSD Docket 08/12/2020 Page 14 of 14

unless Defendants retain counsel related to these communications.
56. Defendants must permit Bureau representatives to interview any employee or other
person affiliated with Defendants who has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed

may have counsel present.

57. Nothing in this Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of compulsory process, under

12 C_F.R. § 1080.6.

Xi

Retention of Jurisdiction

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
58. The Court will retain jurisdiction of this matter for the purpose of enforcing this
Order.
XIV

Service
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

59. This Order may be served upon Defendants by electronic mail, certified mail, or
United Parcel Service, either by the United States Marshal, the Clerk of the Court, or any

representative or agent of the Bureau.

DONE AND ORDERED in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, this 12th day of August, 2020.

Ki, rks

RODNEY SMITH
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE

Copies provided to: Counsel of Record

14
