Press Release

SEC Charges Three Oil Services Executives With Bribing Customs
Officials in Nigeria

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2012-32

Washington, D.C., Feb. 24, 2012 — The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged three oil services executives with violating the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by participating in a bribery scheme to obtain illicit permits for oil rigs in Nigeria in order to retain
business under lucrative drilling contracts.

The SEC alleges that former Noble Corporation CEO Mark A. Jackson along with James J. Ruehlen, who is the current Director and Division
Manager of Noble’s subsidiary in Nigeria, bribed customs officials to process false paperwork purporting to show the export and re-import of
oil rigs, when in fact the rigs never moved. The scheme was designed to save Noble Corporation from losing business and incurring
significant costs associated with exporting rigs from Nigeria and then re-importing them under new permits. Bribes were paid through a
customs agent for Noble’s Nigerian subsidiary with Jackson and Ruehlen’s approval.

The SEC separately charged Thomas F. O’Rourke, who was a former controller and head of internal audit at Noble. The SEC alleges that
O’Rourke helped approve the bribe payments and allowed the bribes to be booked improperly as legitimate operating expenses for the
company. O’Rourke agreed to settle the SEC’s charges and pay a penalty.

“These executives knowingly authorized and paid foreign officials to process false documents, and they consciously concealed the scheme
from Noble’s audit committee,” said Gerald Hodgkins, Associate Director in the SEC’s Division of Enforcement. “When executives bribe
government officials overseas, their misconduct puts their companies in legal peril and damages the integrity of foreign markets and the
reputation of U.S. companies abroad.”

Noble Corporation was charged with FCPA violations as part of a sweep of the oil services industry in late 2010. The company cooperated with
investigators and agreed to pay more than $8 million to settle civil and criminal cases.

According to the SEC’s complaint against Jackson and Ruehlen filed in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the executives
who perpetrated the scheme worked at Noble Corporation and its Nigerian subsidiary Noble Drilling (Nigeria) Ltd, whose rigs operated in
Nigeria on the basis of temporary import permits granted by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). These temporary permits allowed the rigs to
be in the country for a one-year period. NCS had the discretion to grant up to three extensions lasting six months each, after which the rigs
were required to be exported and re-imported under a new temporary permit or be permanently imported with the payment of sizeable
duties.

The SEC alleges that Jackson and Ruehlen had a role in arranging, facilitating, approving, making, or concealing the bribe payments to induce
Nigerian customs officials to grant new temporary permits illegally and favorably exercise or abuse their discretion to grant permit
extensions. Together, Jackson and Ruehlen participated in paying hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to obtain about 11 illicit permits
and 29 permit extensions. Jackson approved the bribe payments and concealed the payments from Noble’s audit committee and auditors.
Ruehlen prepared false documents, sought approval for the bribes, and processed and paid the bribes.

The SEC’s complaint against Jackson and Ruehlen alleges they directly violated the anti-bribery provisions of Section 30A of the Securities
Exchange Act and the internal controls and false records provisions at Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1 of the Exchange Act. The complaint
alleges that they aided and abetted Noble’s violations of Section 30A and the books and records and internal controls provisions at Sections
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. The complaint further alleges that Jackson directly violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2 by
misleading auditors and Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 by signing false certifications of Noble’s financial statements. He also is liable as a control
person under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act for violations of the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal controls provisions by
Noble, Ruehlen, and O’Rourke.

The SEC’s complaint against O’Rourke alleges that he aided and abetted Noble’s violations of the anti-bribery, books and records, and
internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act, and that he directly violated the internal controls and false records provisions of the
Exchange Act. Without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, O’Rourke consented to entry of a court order requiring him to pay a
$35,000 penalty and permanently enjoining him from further violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), 13(b)(5) and 30A of the Exchange
Act and Rule 13b2-1.

The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Moira T. Roberts, Sharan K.S. Custer, and Colin Rand, and the litigation effort will be led by
Kenneth W. Donnelly. The SEC acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice, Fraud Section, and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

HH

Related Materials

e SEC Complaint against Mark A.
Jackson and James J. Ruehlen

e SEC Complaint against Thomas
F. O'Rourke
