UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

rts Mo,
x oO

   

 

   

x Ria oO
(®:
In the Matter of: %) S
on SI
Office of Proceedings

BNP Paribas Securities Corp., |
CFTC Docket No. 16-01 Proceedings Clerk

 

Respondent.

a i le ee i

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
BNP Paribas Securities Corp. (“BNPP” or “Respondent’’) violated Commission Regulations
(“Regulations”) 1.25(b)(3)()(F) and 1.25(b)(3)Gi)(D). Therefore, the Commission deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted to determine whether BNPP engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine
whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

IT.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, BNPP has submitted an
Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept. Without
admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, BNPP consents to the entry of
this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Commodity
Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and acknowledges
service of this Order.’

 

' — BNPP consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding

and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party;
provided, however, that BNPP does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or
conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other proceeding
brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of
this Order. Nor does BNPP consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or
conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other proceeding.

(— RECEIVED CFTC \

 

\ 11:26 am, Oct 20, aw,
III.
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

On three occasions in or about November and December 2014 (the “Relevant Period”),
BNPP violated the Commission’s Regulations governing concentration limits applicable to the
investment of segregated commodity customer funds. BNPP reported two of the violations to
the Commission. An additional violation was discovered in connection with a review by
BNPP’s designated self-regulatory organization, CME Group Inc. None of the violations
resulted in customer losses.

B. RESPONDENT

BNP Paribas Securities Corp. is a financial services firm organized under the laws of
Delaware with its principal office located in New York, New York. It is registered with the
Commission as a Future Commission Merchant (“FCM”) and is an approved Swap Firm and
National Futures Association Member.

Cc. FACTS

As an FCM, BNPP receives money, securities, and other property from its customers
(“customer funds”) to margin, guarantee, or secure the customers’ trades in commodity futures,
options and certain derivatives contracts. FCMs are required to segregate customer funds from
funds belonging to the FCM, and can only invest customer funds in investments enumerated in
Regulation 1.25, 17 C.F.R. § 1.25 (2013). See 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(2). Regulations 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F)
and 1.25(b)(3)(ii)(D), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F), 1.25(6)(3)1)(D) (2013), establish asset-
based and issuer-based concentration limits for investments of segregated customer funds in
money market mutual funds (““MMMFs”).

During the Relevant Period, BNPP invested segregated customer funds in a manner
prohibited by Regulations 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F) and 1.25(b)(3)(i)(D).

On November 20, 2014, BNPP invested more than 10 percent of segregated customer
funds in an individual MMMF in violation of Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(1i1)(D) and more than 50
percent of segregated customer funds in MMMFs in violation of Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F).
BNPP maintained books and records reflecting total assets held in segregation as well as
investments into MMMFs. BNPP’s employees manually entered MMMF investments into its
books and records, and BNPP had a process to calculate whether BNPP was compliant with
Regulations 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F) and 1.25(b)(3)(ii)(D). BNPP’s employee erroneously entered the
amount of the investment into MMMFs as an amount less than the amount actually invested.
The manual error caused BNPP’s books and records to reflect incorrectly that the investment was
compliant with applicable concentration limits. At the end of the day, BNPP discovered that it
was in violation of Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(ii)(D), and on the following day, November 21, BNPP
reported its violation to the Commission.

On November 28, 2014, BNPP invested segregated customer funds in an individual
MMMF, and the investment exceeded 10 percent of total assets held in segregation in violation
of Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(11)(D). BNPP’s employee entered the total assets held in segregation as
approximately $1.158 billion when, in fact, the segregated account only held assets of
approximately $1.054 billion. This error caused BNPP’s books and records to reflect incorrectly
that BNPP’s prior investment of $110 million of customer segregated funds in an MMMF was
still allowable, whereas the maximum allowable investment was $105.4 million. BNPP
maintained an investment of customer segregated funds in an individual MMMF which breached
the applicable concentration limits. BNPP failed to discover this violation. BNPP’s designated
self-regulatory organization, CME Group, discovered this violation on or about December 19,
2014.

On December 5, 2014, BNPP invested more than 50 percent of segregated customer
funds in MMMFs in violation of Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F). The assets held in segregation and
BNPP’s investments in the MMMFs were entered correctly into BNPP’s books and records, and
BNPP’s existing process reflected non-compliance with applicable concentration limits.
However, BNPP’s employee making the investments failed to detect that the investments in
MMMFs exceeded the applicable concentration limits contained in Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F).
On the next business day, December 8, BNPP discovered that it was non-compliant and reported
it to the Commission.

In accepting BNPP’s Offer, the Commission recognizes BNPP’s cooperation during the
investigation by the staff of the Division of Enforcement. The Commission also recognizes that
BNPP voluntarily undertook remedial action to strengthen its policies and procedures related to
compliance with Regulations 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F) and 1.25(b)(3)Gi)(D).

The Commission also notes that the civil monetary penalty imposed on BNPP reflects
BNPP’s early resolution of this matter.

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

Section 4d(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(2) (2013),
provides that customer funds “may be invested in obligations of the United States, in general
obligations of any State or of any political subdivision thereof, and in obligations fully
guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States, such investments to be made in
accordance with such rules and regulations and subject to such conditions as the Commission
may prescribe.” Regulation 1.25(a) contains a list of permissible investments in which FCMs

 

? During the CFTC’s investigation, BNPP discovered that it was in violation of Regulation
1.25(b)(3)(11)(D) at the time of the manual error by BNPP’s employee.
may lawfully invest customer funds, including MMMFs, and Regulation 1.25(b) sets forth the
requirements for managing “permitted investments consistent with the objectives of preserving
principal and maintaining liquidity,” including establishing asset-based and issuer-based
concentration limits. 17 C.F.R. § 1.25 (2013).

Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(1)(F) establishes an asset-based concentration limit for direct
investment of segregated customer funds in MMMFs, stating in relevant part, that “investments
in money market mutual funds . . . may not exceed 50 percent of the total assets held in
segregation by the [FCM].” 17 C.F.R. § 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F).

Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(ii)(D) establishes issuer-based concentration limits for direct
investments of segregated customer funds in MMMFs, stating in relevant part, that “[i]nterests in
any individual money market mutual fund described in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(F) of this section may
not exceed 10 percent of total assets held in segregation by the [FCM].” 17 C.F.R. §
1.25(b)(3)(ii)(D).

On November 20 and 28, 2014, BNPP violated the concentration limit set forth in
Commission Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(4i1)(D) relating to its investment of segregated customer funds
in an individual MMMF, and on November 20 and December 5, 2014, BNPP violated the
concentration limit set forth in Commission Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F) relating to its investment
of segregated customer funds in MMMFs. Each and every day that BNPP maintained segregated
customer funds in an individual MMMF or in MMMFs in violation of Commission Regulation
1.25(b)(3)()(F) or 1.25(b)(3)ii)(D) constitutes a separate and distinct violation.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, BNPP
violated Commission Regulations 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F) and 1.25(b)(3)(i1)(D), 17 C.F.R. §§
1.25(b)(3)()(F), 1.25(6)(3)Gi)(D) (2013).

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

BNPP has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the findings and
conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:

1, The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;
3. All post-hearing procedures;
4, Judicial review by any court;

5. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504, and 28 U.S.C. § 2412, and/or the rules promulgated by the
Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s Regulations,
17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30, relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Dz. Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which BNPP has consented in the Offer;

E. Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:
l. Makes findings by the Commission that BNPP violated Commission Regulations
1.25(b)(3)G)(F) and 1.25(b)(3)qii)(D), 17 C.F.R. 1.25(b)(3)G)(F), 1.25(6)(3)Gi)(D)
(2013).
2. Orders BNPP to cease and desist from violating Commission Regulations
1.25(b)(3)G)(F) and 1.25(b)(3)qii)(D), 17 C.F.R. 1.25(6)(3)G)(F), 1.25(6)(3)ai)(D)
(2013),

3, Orders BNPP to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred and
forty thousand dollars ($140,000), plus post-judgment interest.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.
VII.
ORDER
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A. BNPP shall cease and desist from violating Commission Regulations 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F) and
1.25(b)(3)Gi)(D), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.25(b)(3)G)(F), 1.25(b)(3)Gi)(D) (2013).
BNPP shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred and forty
thousand dollars ($140,000) (“CMP Obligation”), plus post-judgment interest. Post-
judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry of
this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date
of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

BNPP shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money
order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be
made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, BNPP shall contact Nikki Gibson
or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall fully
comply with those instructions. BNPP shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation
with a cover letter that identifies BNPP and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. BNPP shall! simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form
of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

BNPP and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions and
undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. BNPF agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and assigns or agents or
employees under their authority or control shall take any action or make any
public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in
this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is
without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall
affect BNPP’s: (i) testimonial obligations; or (11) right to take legal positions in
other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party. BNPP and its
successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its
agents and/or employees under its authority or control understand and comply
with this agreement.

2. BNPP undertakes to regularly review its policies and procedures and to provide
training to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.
D, BNPP understands and agrees that any acceptance by the Commission of any partial
payment of BNPP’s CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of its obligation to
make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to
seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

E. Until such time as BNPP satisfies in full its CMP Obligation as set forth in this Order,
BNPP shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to
their telephone number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christopher J. Kirkpatrick =
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: October 20, 2015
