Release Number 7265-15

 

October 20, 2015

CFTC Orders BNP Paribas Securities Corp. to Pay a $140,000 Penalty to Settle Charges of
Improper Investment of Customer Segregated Funds

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today issued an Order instituting and
simultaneously settling charges against BNP Paribas Securities Corp. (BNPP), a registered Futures Commission
Merchant (FCM) based in New York, New York, for violating the CFTC’s Regulations governing concentration limits
applicable to the investment of segregated commodity customer funds. The CFTC Order requires BNPP to pay a $140,000
civil monetary penalty and to cease and desist from violating CFTC Regulations, as charged. The Order also requires that
BNPP must regularly review its policies and procedures and provide training to ensure compliance with applicable
regulations.

The Order finds that on three occasions, in or about November and December 2014, BNPP violated the CFTC Regulations
governing concentration limits applicable to the investment of segregated commodity customer funds. BNPP reported
two of the violations to the CFTC and an additional violation was discovered by BNPP’s designated Self-Regulatory
Organization, CME Group Inc. On two of the three days, BNPP invested more than 10 percent of segregated customer
funds in an individual money market mutual fund, in violation of Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(ii)(D), according to the Order.

The Order further finds that on two of the three days, BNPP invested more than 50 percent of segregated customer funds
in money market mutual funds, in violation of Regulation 1.25(b)(3)(i)(F).

The Order states that none of the violations resulted in any customer losses.

In the Order, the CFTC recognizes BNPP’s cooperation during the CFTC’s investigation and that BNPP voluntarily
undertook remedial action to strengthen its policies and procedures related to compliance with the applicable
regulations.

The CFTC appreciates the assistance of the CME Group Inc. in this matter.

The CFTC’s Division of Enforcement thanks Shoshana Feldman and Annette Vitale of the Division of Swap Dealer and
Intermediary Oversight. The CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Neel Chopra,
Patryk J. Chudy, Lenel Hickson, Jr. and Manal M. Sultan.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: October 20, 2015
