Release Number 7245-15

 

September 25, 2015

CFTC Charges New York Corporations Safety Capital Management, Inc. and GNS Capital,
Inc., both d/b/a FOREXNPOWER, and New York City Residents John Won, Sungmi Kang,
and Tae Hung (“Kevin”) Kang with Fraudulently Soliciting More than $1.5 Million ina
Forex Fraud Scheme

Defendants Sungmi Kang and John Won Are Also Charged with
Misappropriation of over $622,000 of Customer Funds

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) filed an enforcement action in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of New York, charging Defendants Safety Capital Management, Inc. (Safety) and
GNS Capital, Inc. (GNS), both doing business as FOREXNPOWER, John Won, a controlling person of GNS, and Sungmi
Kang, a controlling person of both Safety and GNS, with, among other charges, fraudulent solicitation of over $1.5 million
from customers to trade off-exchange foreign currency (forex) and misappropriation of over $622,000 of customer funds.
Defendant Tae Hung Kang (a/k/a Kevin Kang), an officer and agent of Safety and GNS, is charged with fraudulent
solicitation of customers.

The CFTC Complaint alleges that from at least October 2010 through December 2013, Safety and GNS fraudulently
solicited and accepted over $1.5 million from over 90 retail customers to participate in a forex commodity pool and/or to
open forex trading accounts managed by Safety or GNS.

Specifically, the Complaint alleges that Safety and GNS made material false representations in their solicitations of
customers, including that (1) FOREXNPOWER had a “secret trading method” that guaranteed customers would obtain a
“monthly profit rate of 10%,” (2) investors “will not lose their money at all, not even $1;” and (3) customers would make
$100,000 with only a $500 investment.

Defendants solicited customers through advertisements in Korean language newspapers, on their website, in written
solicitation materials, and at seminars in Queens, New York. The Complaint also alleges that Tae Hung Kang falsely
represented that Safety and GNS had and would obtain 10% profits per month without any risk of loss; however, forex
pool participants and retail forex customer accounts managed by the companies had never earned such profits and had
in fact lost money.

In addition, the Complaint charges Safety, GNS, Won, and Sungmi Kang with commingling commodity pool funds with
non-pool property, failing to operate a commodity pool as a separate entity, receiving pool participants’ funds in Safety
or GNS’s name rather than in the name of the commodity pool, and failing to register Safety and GNS with the CFTC as
Commodity Pool Operators (CPOs) and Commodity Trading Advisors (CTAs), as required. The Complaint also charges that
GNS and Won with failing to produce documents at the request of CFTC staff made after GNS had become registered as a
CPO and a CTA.

In its continuing litigation, the CFTC seeks, among other relief, restitution to defrauded customers, disgorgement of ill-
gotten gains, civil monetary penalties, permanent trading and registration bans, and a permanent injunction against
further violations by the Defendants of the federal commodities laws, as charged.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Linda Y. Peng, W. Derek Shakabpa, Christopher
Giglio, David Acevedo, David W. MacGregor, Lenel Hickson, Jr., and Manal M. Sultan.

* OK KK OK XK

CFTC’s Foreign Currency (Forex) Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Foreign Currency Trading (Forex) Fraud Advisory, which states that the CFTC has witnessed a sharp rise in Forex trading
scams in recent years and helps customers identify this potential fraud.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088
Last Updated: September 25, 2015
