Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Maxwell Technologies for Long-Running
Bribery Scheme in China

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2011-31

Washington, D.C., Jan. 31, 2011 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today charged energy-related products manufacturer Maxwell Technologies
Inc. with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by repeatedly
paying bribes to government officials in China to obtain business from several
Chinese state-owned entities.

 

Additional Materials

» SEC Complaint
® Litigation Release No. 21832

 

The SEC alleges that a Maxwell subsidiary paid more than $2.5 million in
bribes to Chinese officials through a third-party sales agent from 2002 to May
2009. As a result, the subsidiary was awarded contracts that generated more
than $15 million in revenues and $5.6 million in profits for Maxwell. These
sales and profits helped Maxwell offset losses that it incurred to develop new
products now expected to become Maxwell's future source of revenue growth.

Maxwell — a Delaware corporation headquartered in San Diego — has agreed
to pay more than $6.3 million to settle the SEC's charges. In a related criminal
proceeding, Maxwell has reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of
Justice and agreed to pay an $8 million penalty.

"Maxwell's bribery allowed the company to obtain revenue and better
financially position itself until new products were commercially developed and
sold," said Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief of the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
Unit. "This enforcement action shows that corruption can constitute disclosure
violations as well as violations of other securities laws."

According to the SEC's complaint filed in U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia, Maxwell's wholly-owned Swiss subsidiary Maxwell Technologies SA
paid the bribes to officials at several Chinese state-owned entities. The bribes
were classified in invoices as either "Extra Amount" or "Special Arrangement"
fees, and were made to improperly influence decisions by foreign officials to
assist Maxwell in obtaining and retaining sales contracts for high voltage
capacitors produced by Maxwell SA.

The SEC's complaint alleges that the illicit payments were made with the
knowledge and tacit approval of certain former Maxwell officials. For example,
former management at Maxwell knew of the bribery scheme in late 2002
when an employee indicated in an e-mail that a payment made in connection
with a sale in China appeared to be "a kick-back, pay-off, bribe, whatever you
want to call it, ....in violation of US trade laws." A U.S.-based Maxwell
executive replied that "this is a well know[n] issue" and he warned "[n]o more
e-mails please."

The SEC alleges that Maxwell failed to devise and maintain an effective
system of internal controls and improperly recorded the bribes on its books.
The illicit sales and profits from the bribery scheme helped Maxwell offset
losses that it incurred to develop its new products. Maxwell made corrections
in its Form 10-Q filing for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.

Without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC's complaint, Maxwell
consented to the entry of a final judgment that permanently enjoins the
company from future violations of Sections 30A, 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)
(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, orders the company to pay
$5,654,576 in disgorgement and $696,314 in prejudgment interest under a
payment plan. The company also is required to comply with certain
undertakings regarding its FCPA compliance program. Maxwell cooperated in
the investigation.

Tracy L. Price and James Valentino of the SEC Enforcement Division's FCPA
Unit conducted the investigation. The Commission acknowledges the
assistance of the Department of Justice's Criminal Division-Fraud Section in its
investigation, which is continuing.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Cheryl J. Scarboro,
Chief, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403
http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2011/2011-31.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 01/31/2011
