2020-BCFP-0012 Document’ Filed 09/01/2020 Page 1 of 49

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0012

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Hypotec, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of Hypotec, Inc. (Hypotec or
Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24 of Regulation
Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in Lending Act
(TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts and Practices—
Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3; and §§ 1031
and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§
5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the

Bureau issues this Consent Order.
AAA PARP eT PAA EO mo -. ‘ se “ey eae ny ra
2OPORGERLOOT? Macument mihael Of PPOOG Zane fF af AQ
he LP I NE Naf db hn nt a EER Lad Pe A CA “bat
L,
0) i

Hypotec is a mortgage broker that offers and provides mortgages guaranteed
by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). As a broker, it
arranges for another creditor to provide loans.
Hypotec advertises these mortgage products to consumers through direct-
mail advertising Campaigns.
Hypotec has sent consumers milhons of advertisements that violate federal
law because they contain misleading and deceptive statements and
madegquate disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop Hypotec from distributme
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.
H.
Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under $$ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $$ 5563, 5565; 8 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12
U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as

amended by § 1097 of the CRPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5538.
6.

FAM Oe Pres anes Mac erent AS EAPO Yom ye St AL
PERT SE URE Oka BaP UP ee Eh Ue PSs Pears ~ os eed AIS yy
sO UP EB PPP boat LAOCUMenyt GA EU mut wo aT Aa
UL

fy o i o
ation
tpulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 19, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under $$
1053 and 1055 of the CFP A, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau's jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.
TV.

Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertismg Complance Official’ means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 106. The Advertismg Compliance
Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,

chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
&

AAA Deer mAs Ps
Tawa BSE er bee HOT POOL
ee z ne

athe A A

of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be m a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears; presented before the consumer mcurs any
fmancial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or im mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.
“Eifective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Entorcement Director’ means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exetnplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contamed in the advertisement as sent, posted,
published, or dissemimated to a consumer.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of

one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
10.

LL.

SAI BPE AAD Maciimeant Shad QGAA Peon Iana Kat Ag
” tie PS Se bee oe : ay Boy rs ; Stel. ang So}
whe I LP Ne Pe Fah ot a wt La MS in I GAP of “eat

governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent
Order,

g. “Relevant Period” includes from January 1, 2016, to the Effective
Date.

n. “Respondent” means Hypotec, Inc., and its successors and assigns.

¥.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Hypotec is a Delaware corporation with its prmcipal place of business m
Miami, Florida.

Hypotec is licensed as a mortgage broker im & states.

tHypotec is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 85481(19),
Regulation 7, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.FLR. §
1014.2, because it is a corporation.

During the Relevant Period, Hypotec has been a “covered person” under the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $5481(G)(A), because if is a person that engages in
offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer
fmancial product(s] or service[s]" under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(S), (6),

CS )KA)G).
12,

14.

16.

V7,

18,

BHI MCL AAD Mactimant San ACMA O Jena Kat Ag
” tie PS Se bee oe : ay Sy Boy rs ; Stel. gy ang So}
whe I LP Ne Seb oo A EN La MS in I Cape “eat

During the Relevant Period, Hypotec has been subject to the MAP Rule

because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has

12 CLPLR. $ 1014.1. The MAP Ruleis a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 548114).

Hypotec provides “mortgage credit product/s},” as that term is defined in the
MAP Rule. 12 CLELR. 8 1014.2.

Hypotec’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
m i2CLPLR. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, Hypotec has offered “closed-end credit” in the
form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation Z. 12 C.PR. § 1026.2(a)(10) & GD).

Hypotec’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end
credit,” as that term is defined im Regulation Z. 12 C.F_R. $ 1026.2(a)(10).
Hypotec offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed by the
VA.

Hypotec’s principal means of advertisng VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, mclidmg veterans

and servicemembers.
19,

20.

21.

22,

23,

ARAN PEE ARRAS =
POSO-BOER.O01?2 Docuy
mr Pee N

athe A A

Since January 2016, Hypotec has mailed milhons of mortgage
advertisements to consumers in about [0 states.
Hundreds of thousands of consumers have recerved at least one of Hypotec’s
direct-mail advertisements, and thousands of consumers have obtained
mortgages through Hypotec.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations
Federal consumer financial law contams numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, Hypotec was responsible for both the content of,
and the dissermmation of, numerous mortgage advertisements during the
Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements,

as described below.

Faise, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations About Cost
Most of Hypotec’s mortgage advertisements stated specific credit terms,
such as an interest rate, annual percentage rate (APR), and payment amount.
By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, Hypotec represented,
expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a mortgage with those
credit terms,
In fact, Hypotec did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific credit
terms stated in many of those advertisements.

7
26,

27.

29,

30,

Sk.

33.

2020-BCFP-0012

athe A A

In numerous imstances, Hypotec misrepresented the actual credit terms
applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

Malhons of Hypotec mortgage advertisements described mortgages with a
simple interest rate and APR combination that, on the date of the
advertisement and in the 60 days preceding, Hypotec was not actually
prepared to arrange or offer.

For example, Hypotec sent about $50,000 advertisements to consumers
between June 2018 and January 2019 that advertised a mortgage with a
2,/5% mtroductory interest rate and an APR of 2.788%.

But Hypotec did not offer such a loan, as reflected in the rate sheets of its
lenders.

Hypotec also sent about 2 milhon advertisements to consumers between
December 2016 and May 2018 offering an adjustable-rate mortgage with a
three-year introductory interest rate of 2.25% andan APR of 2.461%.

But Hypotec aiso did not offer such a loan, as reflected in the rate sheets of
its lenders.

Accordingly, Hypotec misrepresented the actual APR for loans offered in
these advertisements.

Hypotec sent about 2.9 million of these advertisements to servicemembers

and veterans.
34,

Cn
CFI

36.

37,

AAA Deer mAs Ps
Tawa BSE er bee HOT POOL
ee z ne

athe A A

2 oe

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 27—33
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtamme a loan.

Faise and Misleading Representations About an
Affiliation with the Government

Numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements falsely represented, directly or

by implication, using formats and phrases, that Hypotec was affihated with

the United States government, including the VA, that the advertised product

was endorsed, sponsored by, or affihated with the United States government,

or that the United States government was the source of the advertisements.

For example, each of about 3.2 milhon Hypotec advertisements sent to

servicemembers and veterans contained the following statements:

dk. “VA-1211 Benefit Allotment Notice” positioned in the upper corner
of the letter;

b. “Understanding your VA Benefit Statement’ centered prominently im
bold letters across the top of the letter;

c. That the recipient has been “tagged for mclusion m our VA IRREL

program” in the body of the letter;
39,

AQ.

Al.

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en ~. - -
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Range TH AQ
SNP eM Pee E WAS Pa BaP ASP ETA eR OT 5 ek AS fa AF oa A! a Le Aa As Tat

d. “This program 1s limited to the beneficiary above and is
nontransterable”’;

é, “To accept your benefits and reductions... call Home Assistance
Department’; and

f, “Our records indicate that you are not currently utuizing your VA
Loan Eheibility thatis allotted by the Federal Government.”

These statements and other characteristics relatmg to the mailing strongly

implied that the solicitations were being sent by or on behalf of the United

States government, inchiding the VA.

In fact, those representations were false because Hypotec was not affillated

with the United States government, nor were the products offered im these

advertisements endorsed by, sponsored by, or affihated with the

government, inchiding the VA.

were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

10
42.

AS.

Ad,

AG,

Al.

POPO-RCE PLOTS Paciument 7 Fuad OO/O7 (2020 Pane AQ
Bad ae MRP De tat AE ew BA AEN Pa : Newt A Bow Sab Bow SP she Xa Ys

False and Misleading Representations About an
Escrow Refund Amount

About 3.2 milion of the advertisements Hypotec sent between June 2016
and January 2019 stated that a recipient will receive an “EST. ESCROW
REPOND AMOUN'T” of a specific amount if that consumer refinances his
or her mortgage.
The escrow refund amounts that Hypotec advertised were calculated using a
methodology that had no bearmg on the actual escrow refund amount.
Moreover, Hypotec frequently required a consumer to fund a new escrow
account upon generating a new loan.
Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 42-44
were likely to be misied by them.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtamimyg a loan.
Faise Representations About the

Time-Limited Availability of the VA-Loan Program
About 450,000 of the advertisements Hypotec sent stated: “the Economic
Stimulus Program will end soon. There is currently no plan to extend the

Stimulus Program.”

il
AS,

49,

Fi
o

Ln
ws

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en .
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Sana 13 AQ
Sai tee ot WAS Pe RAP ASE EAD ERG 3 eke AF a Bon AF eS od No tn kas Ps

This statement regarding the purported time-limited availability of the VA
loan program was untrue.
Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 47 and
4% were likely to be misled by them.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

Inadequate Disclosures
Many of Hypotec’s mortgage advertisements stated the amount of a new
loan payment and an mtroductory interest rate for adrustable mortgages.
Under certain sections of Regulation Z, including § 1026.24(c), (d), and (),
the use of these terms triggers specific disclosure requirements. About 3.2
mulhon of Hypotec’s advertisements mcluded these trigger terms, but did not
mclude the other disclosures that are required, or did not include them m the
manner required.
In addition, about 1.8 millon of Hypotec’s mortgage advertisements stated
the name of the consumer’s current lender, but did not inclide the additional
disclosures required by Regulation Zim § 1026.24@)(4).

Disclosures Triggered by Payment Amount

Numerous Hypotec morigage advertisements stated the amount of a new

loan payment, but failed to state the terms of repayment reflecting the

12
Fi
>

35,

56,

57,

AHA _ Bere wm AAs Payee cssscamd 4
oo ed we LT bea y oo at te ant
eo We TR POU A ba RE PAS EE 7

recipient’s repayment obhgations over the full term of the loan, as required
by section 1026.24(d).

For example, 3.2 milion Hypotec advertisements sent to consumers stated a
“new principal and interest payment’ reflecting a new monthly payment
amount, a simple interest rate,an APR, and the phrase “3 year ARM” in
smaller font at the bottom of the page.

But these advertisements did not state the period of the loan or the number
of required payments. Moreover, the payment amount advertised was
applicable for only the first three years of the loan, but the advertisements
did not disclose the subsequent payments required over the full term of the
loan, as required by § 1026.24(a)(2yan.

Ot these advertisements, 2.9 million also failed to disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner the amount of each payment that would apply over the
term of the loan, the period during which each payment would apply, and the
fact, applicable to these loans, that the payments did not mclude amounts for
taxes and insurance premiums and that the actual payment obhgation would
be greater, as required by § 1026.24()(3).

For example, the advertisements proviied the amount of the recipient’s new
monthly payment, but included neither the amount of each payment that

would apply over the term of the loan (despite stating in small print that the

i3
58,

APA PAE, OAM am ~ og gua y ON TN A Ee on a4 ~
AOL BER AAS Miners t fF Mla MOA POOH Bane tA at 4
me KS a POO AAS BAAR kd i Me we a

“er

loan was fora “3 year ARM’), nor the period durmg which each payment
would apply. Furthermore, the advertisements failed to disclose that the
advertised payment amounts excluded taxes and msurance and that the

actual payment obligation would be greater.

Disclosures Triggered by Introductory Interest Rate
Numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements offering a loan for which more
than one interest rate would apply included a simple annual rate of interest,
but failed to clearly and conspicuously state each simple annual interest rate
that would apply, the time period durmg which each simple annual interest
rate would apply, and, for variable rate loans, an APR for the loan that
complied with the accuracy standards in 12 C.FLR. §§ 1026.17(c) and
1026.22, as required by Regulation Z, 12 C.FLR. § 1026.24).
For example, Hypotec sent about 2.9 milton advertisements fora variable-
rate mortgage to consumers offering an introductory annual rate of interest
that would apply for the first three years of the loan, but that did not disclose
each simple mterest rate that would apply over the remaming term of the
loan, whether by including the loan’s fully indexed interest rate on the date
of the advertisement or by including the loan’s index and margin. These
advertisements also stated the period for the introductory rate-—three

years—but not the twenty-seven-year term for the fully-indexed rate.

i4
60,

61.

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee mrt ENA Ie
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees
aXe eM ee be CA ee oe BP ASLP PERG Gk og yobs Puri GP ela

In addition, about 850,000 of these advertisements sent to consumers
between June 7, 2018 and January 17, 2019 offered a mortgage with a
2.75% mtroductory mterest rate that apphed to the first three years of the
loan anda 2.788% APR. In fact, the lowest APR that would have been
available from Hypotec’s lenders within 60 days before June 7, 2018 for the
loans promoted in those advertisements was at least 3.766%, which was not
within the accuracy standards m 8§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22. And the lowest
APR that would have been available from Hypotec’s lenders within 60 days
betore January 17,2019 for the loans promoted in those advertisements was
at least 4.282%, also not within the accuracy standards in $$ 1026.17(c) and
1026.22.

The remainmg 2 milhon of these advertisements sent to consumers between
December 9, 2016 and May 3, 2018 offered a mortgage with a 2.25%
introductory interest rate that applied to the first three years of the loan and a
2.461% APR. tn fact, the lowest APR that would have been available from
Hypotec’s lenders within 60 days before December 9, 2016 for the loans
promoted in those advertisements was at least 2.726%, which was not within
the accuracy standards in §§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22. The lowest APR that
would have been available from Hypotec’s lenders within 60 days before

May 3, 2018 for the loans promoted in those advertisements was at least
62.

64,

65.

AAA Arm Aman Pe ee
POP OWRCERELAMTS Poacienent 4
Band tn at RP EE tat AE ew eh AER rd

3.766%, which was also not within the accuracy standards in §8 1026.17{(c)
and 1026.22.

Disclosures Triggered by Current Lender Name
Numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements used the name of the
consumer’s current lender, but failed to disclose Hypotec’s name with equal
prominence, orto include a clear and conspicuous statement that Hypotec
was not associated with, or acting on behalf of, the consumer’ s current
lender, as required by section 1026.24G).
For example, Hypotec sent about 1.8 mulhon advertisements that featured
the name of the consumer’s current lender on the top of the advertisement
and on the envelope in large, bold type.
The advertisements contaimed a disclosure in small type at the bottom of the
advertisement stating that the “offeris made by Hypotec, Inc.” and that the
company was not affiliated with the consumer’s current lender, but this
disclosure was not “with equal prominence’ to the use of the current
lender’s name.
The advertisements also did not contain a clear and conspicuous disclosure
that Hypotec was not associated with, or acting on behalf of, the consumer's

current lender.

16
66.

67,

68.

69.

APO PORE RA A tm ~ . og peg OPN PN A Pe a ~
AOL BER AAS Miners t fF Clan Oiad PaAen Dees AF AG
MPR TELS Le PG WAS Pa BAAR kd POURS WCE PP ce PO SRS Tat

VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION @
Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.PUR. § 1026.24(a)

Under 12 C.P.R. § 1026.24(a), “hilfan advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”

Hypotec violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-33,
numerous Hypotec advertisements for credit stated specific credit terms
other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or offered by

the creditor.

Terms of Repayment, 12 C.FLR. § 1026.24(d)

Under 12 C.F_R. § 1026.24(d)C1), if an advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t]he terms of repayment, which reflect
the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, mcluding any
balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), (2)n).

Hypotec violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs 53-57,

numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements set forth the period of

i]
70,

TY.

RON RE AMS ~ Lo peg ONIN A EP — ~
2OOH RE R AGS Miners t fF Mla MOA POOH Dany R at AG
ee KS a EES et we RE PAS EE 7 POPRALS Wea Pc PU CARIS to

repayment or the amount of any payment, which are triggering terms under §
1026.24(d)(1)G)) and Gi), but failed to state the repayment obligations over

the full term of the loan, pursuantto § 1026.24(d)(2)(n).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.F UR. § 1026.24(D(2)0)

Under 12 CLFLR. 8 1026.24()(2)GQ), if a direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annual rate of interest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner

(A) Each simple annual rate of interest that wil apply.

In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by

adding an index and margin shail be disclosed based on

a reasonably current mdex and margin;

(3) The period of time durmg which each simple
annual rate of mterest will apply; and

(C) The | APR] for the loan. If such rate is variable, the

[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
8§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

Hypotec violated § 1026.24(1)(2)G) because, as described in Paragraphs 56-
61, numerous Hypotec direct-mail mortgage advertisements for a loan for
which more than one interest rate would apply stated a simple annual rate of
interest, but did not include one or more of the disclosures required pursuant
to § 1026.24()(2)()CA) through (C), or did not disclose them clearly and

conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(7F)(2)an).

18
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.FLR. § 1026.24()(3)@)

72. Under 12 C.P_R. § 1026.240)(3)G), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the ammount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that willapply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be

disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(8) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first hen ona
dwelling, the fact that the payments do not include amounts

for taxes and msurance premiums, if applicable, and that the
actual payment obligation will be greater.

73. Hypotec violated § 1026.24(1)(3)G) because, as described in Paragraphs 56-
“7, numerous Hypotec direct-mail mortgage advertisements stated the
amount of a payment but did not include one or more of the disclosures
required pursuant to § 1026.24(9)(3)G)(A) through (©), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(3)G)).
Misleading Use of the Current Lender’s Name, 12 C.F.R, § 1026.24()(4)

74. Under 12 CLPLR. § 1026.24G)(4), mortgage advertisements may not:

Usiel the name of the consumer's current lender in an
advertisement that is not sent by or on behalf of the

19
75,

76,

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en oe ~
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Base OO af AG
Sai tee ot WAS Pe RAP ASE EAD ERG 3 eke AF a Bos AF aS CAINS Aas Tt

consumer’ s current lender, unless the advertisement:

G) Discloses with equal prominence the name of the
person or creditor making the advertisement; and

Gi) Includes a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement is not associated

with, or actmg on behalf of, the consumer’s current
lender,

Hypotec violated § 1026.24(4)(4) because, as described in Paragraphs 62-65,
numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements, which were not sent by or on
behalf of the consumer's current lender, used the name of the consumer’ s
current lender and did not (1) disclose with equal prommence the name of
the person or creditor making the advertisement, as required by §
1026.240)(4)G); or (2) include a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement was not associated with, or acting on

behalf of, the consumer's current lender, as required by § 1026.24G)(4)Up.

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP ROLE (REGULATION N)
Miusrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.PLR. § 1014.3(b)
Under 12 CLF_LR. § 1014.3(b), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[tihe annual

percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”

20
TT,

78.

79.

AYP AA PE SRP PR At ot os PN ge ee eeu: pe care ra Tat ~ oo
POPO-RCE PLOTS Paciument 7 Fuad OO/O7 (2020 Pane AQ
Bad ae MRP De Le a Pe BASE EAGER : tek Ae CAF EAN she oe Aas Ys

applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. 8 1014.3, sucha
miusrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Hypotec violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-33 and
58-61, numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements contained

misrepresentations about the APB applicable to a mortgage credit product.

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 CLE. $ 1014.3@)

Under 12 C.F_R. § 1014.3), itis a violahon for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by imphcation, m any commercial communication, about “[t}he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, including but not limited to
musrepresentations that the consumer will recetve a certain amount of cash
or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Hypotec violated § 1014.3G) because, as described in Paragraphs 42-44,
numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available to the consumer in

connection with the mortgage credit product, including misrepresentations

ya
ARAN RAP AMS r LA Or A ER my ~e ar
BOO RCE RBLAYTS Paciiyent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Rare OO af AG
CMI POPU A ba LAGER od Pls VCE PP PU CARINS aoa Qa Sra

that the consumer would receive a certain amount of cash as part of a

mortgage credit transaction,
Misrepresentations About Government Affiiation, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.30)

80. Under 12C.F.R. § 1014.30), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about:

the association of the mortgage credit product or any provider
of such product with any other person or program, including

but not hmited to misrepresentations that:

(1} The provider is, or is affiliated with, any
governmental entity or other organization; or

(2) The product is or relates to a government benefit, or
is endorsed, sponsored by, or affihated with any
government or other program, including but not lnited
to through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that
resemble those of such entity, organization, or
program.

Under 12 CLELR. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Si. Hypotec violated § 1014.3(n) because, as described in Paragraphs 36-39,
numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit product was affihated

with the United States government.

22
ARAM MPR AMA Pe wn mo mm me -
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Marea OR AQ
Sai tee ot WAS Pa BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yet A oa AF Baw y 8 she cr Tat

Misrepresentations About Source of Advertisements, 12 C.FLR. § 1014.3(0)

82.

64.

85,

56.

Under 12 CLELR. § 1014.3¢(0), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by mmplhcation, about the source of any commercial communication.
Under 12 C.PLR. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.
Hypotec violated § 1014.3(0) because, as described in Paragraphs 36-39,
numerous Hypotec mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit product was the United
States government.

VIGLATIONS OF THE CRPA
Under the CFP A, itis unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-fimancial product or service, or the offermg of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. 8 S531 (a), 5536(a)C1 CB).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission thatis likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances,
Information that is likely to affect a consumer's choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers.

23
B7.

58.

89,

90.

AA PE SAP PR At oy PN . Rh A EO ek Roe eee TRA wT AM
eOSO.RCERLOOTS Pocument 7 Fuad OO/O7 (2020 Pane 24 af 49
Band tn at RP EE We Ad Pa BHAA Ed POPPA A PP ee SCANS GOP Ge Pet

Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 27~33 and 42-44,
Hypotec’s mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by imphcation
that specific credit terms were avavable or would be arranged or offered by
the creditor, including representations about (1) mterest rate and APR
combinations, and (2) the cash a consumer would receive upon closing
through a specific “escrow refund” amount, when in fact those specific
credit terms were not available or were not terms that Hypotec was actually
prepared to arrange or offer.

Hypotec’s misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised credit
terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers acting
reasonably under the circumstances.

Hypotec’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Hypotec engaged m deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CRPA, 12 U.S.C. $§ 553 1(a), S536(a)C G3).

24
91.

02.

94.

95,

96.

APO PORE RA A tm ~ . oa peg ONIN A EP a ~e ~
AOL BER AAS Miners t fF Clan Oiad PaAen Rin: BR aft A
me KS a POO AAS ROA PIAS EL gd i = j a

Deceptive Representations About Government AMiliation

in numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 36-39, Hypotec’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that the
sohicitations were being sent by or on behalf of the United States
government, inchiding the VA.

In fact, the solicitations were not being sent by or on behalf of the United
States government.

Hypotec’s misrepresentations described in paragraphs 91-92 were likely to
mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Hypotec’s misrepresentations described in paragraphs 91-92 were material
because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of consumers.
Therefore, Hypotec engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 88 5531 (a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About the
Time-Limited Availability of the VA Loan Program

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 47 and 48, Hypotec’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that the
VA loan program that Hypotec generated its loans under would be ending

SOOF,
OF

98.

99.

100.

LOL.

102.

103.

AYP AA PE SRP PR At ot os PN ge ee eeu: pe ae ra Tat ~ oo
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees MS aryen sf AG
SNP eM Pee E WAS Pa BaP ASP ETA eR OT 5 ek AS oa AF Baw she SA Te

In fact, there was no deadline for applymeg for a VA-guaranteed loan, and the
VA-guaranteed loan program had no end date.

Hypotec’s misrepresentations about the time-limited availability of the VA
loan program were likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Hypotec’s misrepresentations about the time-limited availability of the VA
loan program were material because they were hkely to influence the
conduct or decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Hypotec engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. $$ S531 (a), 5536(a)C1)(B).

Violations of the CKPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Zand the MAP Rule

Under the CFPA, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules
thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. $8 SS36(a} 1A), 548104).
Regulation 7 and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.
Hypotec’s violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 66-83, constitute violations of $ LO36(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA, 12

ULS.C. § SS36(a)C TCA).

26
AYP AA PE SRP PR At ot os PN ge ee eeu: pe care ra Tat ~ -
POPO-RCE PLOTS Paciument 7 Fuad OO/O7 (2020 Pane AQ
Band tn at RP EE tat AE ew BA AEN Pa : Newt A Bow ab Bow sho th Xa Ys

CONDUCT PROVISIONS
Vi.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

IT TS ORDERED, under $$ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $§

8563, S565, that:

104, Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R.§ 1014.3 and 12 C.F_R. § 1026.24, and
m connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale
of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assistmg others in misrepresenting, expressly or
by implication:

1. Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not muted to the following: the total
costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or
central characteristics;

2. Vheavailabilty of an advertised or offered mortgage to any

consumer or the benefits of refinancing; or

ai
Se HRP DLAs Piaciinmant 4 Sad GOV 4 eae nes OR AG
Soe Ue WAS Pa BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yak ASG AS oa AF Baw y 8 sho cl Tat

3, The existence of any deadhne, expiration date, or imeframe for

a consumer to obtain or exercise his or her VA benefits;
Including or using any words, phrases, images, or design
characteristics that falsely state or imply that:

1. ‘The source of the advertisement is the government or the
consumer’ s current lender or is affihated with the government
or the consumer’ s current lender; or

2. The advertisement is anything other than an advertisement fora
mortgage:

Including or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or
design characteristics:

lL. “Benefit announcement,”

2. “Bheibilty advisory,”

3. “Ebgibility notice;”

4, “Bheibilty status;”

5. “Expiration notice;”

6. “Pending authorization,”

7. “VA loan department,”

& “VA loan representative;”

9, “VA loan specialist,”

28
105.

APO PS AM am ~ 4 ot mT A Ee ~~ ~e ~ ax
AOL BER AAS Miners t fF Mla MOA POOH Mien OO af AG
2 WA? ba RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od yoPPRAAS Ae SoA SAS ca MS Ae i Pat

Sa tet

10.

LT.

12.

14.

“VA program customer support;
“VA specialist;”

“Waiting period,”

The URS signature year style (two digits in white or outhned
text and the other two digits in black text);

The format of an IRS form, includmg Form W-2, ora
substantially sumilar format; or

Any VA or United States Department of Defense (DOD) logo,
ora logo, emblem, or other representation that resembles—or
that a consumer could reasonably interpret as-—-a VA or DOD

logo; and

d. Stating the name of the consumer’s current or prior lender, unless the

current or prior lender is Hypotec, or unless stating the name of the

current or prior lender is otherwise required by law.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or

offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following

affirmative actions:

29
AMAR PAA AM am i
AH HO Beem AAs rm.

Sa tet

: of
ce. ee

wh PDs pees re cay oy
re be LAAN

Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and imphed

claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.

If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the

amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minimum:

tb

The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

The amount of each payment that wil apply over the term of
the loan, icluding any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determmed based on the
application of the sum of an index and margim shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;
The peniod durmg which each payment will apply;

The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and
ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en .
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Mare Ag
Sai Uh eb Fd Xt A BAA EAB Ea : tee Ae bow AF Bn & shew Mw Ys

7. The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate
may be increased after consummation, that fact.

In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,
Respondent must:

i. State, Clearly and Prommentiy, that the product is an
“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” before the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

2. Foreach simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based
on an mdex and margin, base the rate on an index value m
effect on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior,
and disclose the index and margin; and

3. State that more mformation about adjustable rate mortgages is
available at https://hiles.consumerfinance.gov/f201401_ cipb_

Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be
made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. $3 1026.24, must be:

i. Inthe same type size as the advertised rates or payments

triggering the required disclosures;

3]
106.

ARAM MPR AMA Pe wn mo mm me ~
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Mare Ag
Sai tee ot WAS Pe RAP ASE EAD ERG 3 eke AF a Bon AF eS she wt. 4. Tt

2. Located mimediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

3, Otherwise compliant with Regulation 7, as applicable.

VIL.

Advertising Review

VPS PURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the folowimg

affirmative actions:

Respondent’s Advertising Comphance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it is
complant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims
made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is
mailed to consumers, the Advertismg Comphance Official must
review an Exemplar of those advertisements—inclading any

32
ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ ne en mo ASS
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Mane 32 af AG
Sai tee ot WAS Pa BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yet Ar A SoA SAS 5a Xe ade Gib ora

envelope, mailer, and enclosures——to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,
expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if appheable,
at the time the advertisement is dissemimated, This requirement
apphes whether the set is mailed as a single batch or in multiple
batches. It also apples whether the set is mailed out at a single time or
over a period.

The Advertising Complance Official must document in writing his or
her review of cach advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement
includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availabilty of the advertised rate(s). If the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all

mputs assumed when calculating that number. ifthe advertisement

Lao
Lao
ARAN AAPM ANA PA ee ot. mo mem en mh. a AS
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Mane Sd af AG
Sade UP Ed WAS Pa RP ASP GASP re oT SFL AS Ge oa AF Baw SOSA MS Ae adr Gb ora

states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
mclude any materials used to determme the availabilty of that
amount,

dd. The Advertismg Complhance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation 7, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VILL
Compliance Plan

ITS FURTHER ORDERED that:

107. Within 45 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive comphance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
mortgage advertismg comples with all apphcable Federal consumer
fmancial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Comphance Plan). The
Comphance Plan must include, at a mmimum:

dl. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent

Order; and
108.

109.

110.

AOA PAPER Am ~ : ~ SN TEN tN o~ mk am
IAW CE RLAGTS Pieacmiyrent 4 Pia Old PeAan Rin RE at AG
Sew ke bg WAS Pa BASLE EER PER Od : Get ASE Oa AF POCAGNS wear Leb Or se

b. Specific timeframes and deadlmes for nmplementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determimation
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. 1f
the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within [5 days.

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outhned m the Comphance Plan.

MONETARY PROVISIONS
Ex.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT tS PURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factorsin 12 U.S.C. $ 5565¢c)(3), Respondent must pay a

civil money penalty of $50,000 to the Bureau.

Lao
or
APM EE OAM ae ~ . ~ I ENA ~~ ~ ~
AOL BER AAS Mie issycinmt 4 Mla MOA POOH Barve BE af AQ
eae Uke PT WA? ba RAP ASE EAD ERG : Seka Wh Bos AF aS » oA MS Ne age Lael ora

lil. Respondent must pay the civil money penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau

according to the followmg schedule:

a. $10,000 on or before October 1, 2020;

b. $16,000 on or before November 1, 2020; and
c, $30,000 on or before December 31, 2020.

112. Thecivi money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited im
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. 8 5497G0,

113. Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultumately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
mdemmnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any msurance policy, with regard to any civil
money penalty paid under this Consent Order.

114. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related

Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,

36
Lis.

AOA Per ot Pes ene wayyy +
PODO-RCEPLOOT? Document 4
Batt UPd A bee RPA TAS Pd

nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe courtin any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid m this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
afmal order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

Additional Monetary Provisions
Tris FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, mterest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid trom the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and

payable.
116.

11s.

119.

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ ne en moO AS
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Mange SR «af AG
Sai tee ot WAS Pa BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yet Ar A SoA SAS 5a Ae adhe Gib ora

Respondent must reimquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paxl
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. $7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Withm 30 days of the entry of a fmal judgment, consent order, or settlement
mina Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing, That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
LL
Reporting Requirements
VPIS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not

hmuted to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would

38
120.

AAAA FARR AMAR ~*~ ‘ ~~ ON A Ie o “e eae
2OOH RE R AGS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Beane BO af AQ
ONE TR PO A ba RAR LGE AGE ER oF Pole Ase to PY PCA wor Ga Sra

result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution

of a subsidiary, parent, or affihate that engages in any acts or practices

subject to this Consent Order; the filmg of any bankruptcy or msolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent's name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Withm 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. Identify any businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner,
or that Respondent directly or mdirectly controls, by all of their
names, telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet

addresses; and

&

Describe the activities of any such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and

sales,
L211,

ARAN AFM Aman PA oo ee ~ en Tm .
SOOLBCE RANTS Praciirnant 4 Cian ay aye Dace Ag
Bn SP tn PME ET Xt A BAA EAB Ea : tee Ae bow AF Bn & fe SY Mw Ys

Respondent mustreport any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 120 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Comphance Plan, Respondent must submit to

the Enforcement Director an accurate written complance progress report

(Comphance Report) that has been approved by Respondent's executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

Lists each apphcable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form im which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;

Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;

Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an
explanation of why any such mstances occurred; and

Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtamed under

section XU, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

AO
124,

125,

126.

APO PORE RA A tm ~ . oa peg ONIN A EP — .
AOL BER AAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Dearne At
me KS a POO AAS ROA PIAS EL gd i = j a

Ste
ie,

MU,

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
TTS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members Gf any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.
For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any busmess entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to m Section AL, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who wil have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures

comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seg.,

Ay
127.

128.

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en ~. “~. ~
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Mane 2? af AG
Sai tee ot WAS Pa BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yet A oa AF Baw a Le Trae, Ui ora

within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 124-25 anda copy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under
Paragraph 126.
ALLEL.
Recordkeeping

IT Is FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeepmg requirements of 12 C.FLR.
& 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four
months from the last date Respondent made or dissemmated the applicable
commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit
product, the following evidence of comphance with the MAP Rule:
a. Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well

as sales scripts, training materials, and marketmg materials, regarding

any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or

disseminated during the relevant time period;

42
b.

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en oe ~
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Range 2h Ag
Sai tee ot WAS Pe RAP ASE EAD ERG 3 eke AF a Bos AF aS AS Ne wer AS Tat

Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or dissemimated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to
consumers: and

Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, incliding but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.

Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage

advertisements dissemmated withm 5 years of the Effective Date for at least

S years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 106(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.
131,

132,

ARAM MPR AMA Pe wn mo mm ~. s ~
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Bane ad AG
Soe Ue WAS Pa BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yet A On AF BAN a Le Top Tt

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retam the following

busmess records:

ak. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full comphance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including ail submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,
mcliding any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
behalf; and

c. All consumer cormplaints and refund requests (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses
to those complaints or requests.

Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 131 for at

least 5 years after creation of the record.

available to the Bureau upon the Bureau's request.
ALY.
Notices
ITP Ts FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must

provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents

aed
135.

APO PS AM am ~ 4 ot mT A Ee o~ le og
SOOO Rom AAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Oiad PaAen Merwe 2bR at A
me KS a POO AAS BALE EASE ERT i Me we a

relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “Jv re
Hypotec, fnc., File No. 2020-BCFP-0012,” and send them by overnight
courier or first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by
emai to Enforcement_Comphance @cipb. gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, NW.
Washington D.C, 20552

AY,

Compliance Monitoring
TTS PUR THER ORDERED that:
Withm 21 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Comphance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testumony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ comphance with those
requirements; or produce non-privieged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ comphance with those

requirements.
136.

138.

139,

140,

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en .
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Pilea ASiad Feaen Baees olf Ag
Sai Uh eb Fd Le of oe BHAA Ed : Natta A Bow NaF Bim Sy he XP kas “Yt

For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retaims counselrelated to these
communications,
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s comphance with those
requirements any employee or other person affihated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.
Nothing mn this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
mvestigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
AVE,

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT iS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.¢., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reportmg
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e. ¢., reasonable extensions of

time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good

AG
141.

142.

ARAN MAPS AAMAS PA ee ~ mo mem en ~. ay ok at
POORER DLA Se Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGliAt7 Pees Mane Ay af AG
Sai tee ot WAS Pa BP ASLP PERG Gk og 5 Yet A fa AF oa A! a Le ? Lah Pa

cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Darector must be in writing.

AWIE.

Administrative Provisions
iP is PUR THER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from takmg any other action against Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 142. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from takmg any action agamst
Respondent.
The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential habuity
for law violations thatthe Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effectrve Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
aftiihates, including, without imitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to

calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect

4]
144,

145.

146.

AOA Per ot Pes ene wayyy +
PODO-RCEPLOOT? Document 4
Batt UPd A bee RPA TAS Pd

any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, orto seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
‘This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 129-130 and 132-33 of this Consent
Order will terminate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired.
Ail other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from
the Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writmg by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all

applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

4s
2020-BCFP-0012 Document1 Filed 09/01/2020 Page 49 of 49

147. The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

148. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

149. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this a ay of August, 2020.

(Bin SK Kon fo,

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

49
