2 a BW Mar iPy bier
“ee TE OST UP Lae eer dF ?
LUM acl Pr eheihe FP,

oy

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

 

EASTERN DISVISION
)
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading )
Commission, )
) Case No. 18 cv 242
Plaintiff, )
° ) Hon. Manish Shah
Vv. )
)
RICHARD D. CARTER; MARK R. )
SLOBODNIK; and BLUE GURU TRADING, |)
LLC, )
)
Defendants. )

 

[PROPOSED] CONSENT ORDER FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION, CIVIL
MONETARY PENALTY

AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF AGAINST MARK R, SLOBODNIK

I. INTRODUCTION

On January 12, 2018, Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”
or “CFTC”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Richard D. Carter (“Carter”), Mark R.
Slobodnik (“Slobodnik”) and Blue Guru Trading, LLC(“Blue Guru’”)(collectively “Defendants”)
seeking injunctive and other equitable relief, as well as the imposition of civil penalties, for
violations of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. §§ 1-26 (2012), and the
Commission’s Regulations (“Regulations”) promulgated thereunder, 17 C.F.R. pts. 1-190
(2018). The Court entered a a Statutory Restraining Order against Defendants on January 12,
2018 (Dkt. # 13), a Consent Order for Preliminary Injuncion Against Mark R. Slobodnik, a
Consent Order for Preliminary Injunction Against Richard D. Carter on January 25, 2018 (Dkt #s
24 and 25), and an Order for Preliminary Injunction Against Blue Guru Trading, LLC on January

26, 2018 (Dkt. # 27). The Court entered an Order for Injunction, Civil Monetary Penalities and
, ce MOAT Pare renmmt oh SMTA. Tafa me
3 “Ts Sosy re a nck PYM Bo ke Leos PP ;
Die ah RP OU eee LRU EST OP PoPMRAd. what

r
ras
beet
uy
cD
Seeeth

other Statutory and Equitable Relief Against Defendant Blue Guru Trading, LLC (the “Blue

Guru Order’) on May 1, 2018, (Dkt # 51).

II. CONSENTS AND AGREEMENTS

To effect settlement of all charges alleged in the Complaint against Defendant Slobodnik
without a trial on the merits or any further judicial proceedings, Defendant Slobodnik:

1. Consents to the entry of this Consent Order for Permanent Injunction, Civil
Monetary Penalty and Other Equitable Relief Against Defendant Mark R. Slobodnik (“Consent
Order’’);

2. Affirms that he has read and agreed to this Consent Order voluntarily, and that no
promise, other than as specifically contained herein, or threat, has been made by the Commission
or any member, officer, agent or representative thereof, or by any other person, to induce consent
to this Consent Order;

3, Acknowledges service of the summons and Complaint;

4, Admits the jurisdiction of this Court over him and the subject matter of this action
pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012);

5. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission over the conduct and transactions at
issue in this action pursuant to the Act;

6. Admits that venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the

Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(e);
re
aa
yi
re!
oy
a ain
o
“
Cas
i.
Faia
Tr
oy
3
—
B
faa
a

~ . £8 PASS : ¢ oh ad pay : A. 2a fa QE 2
f Sy PAE ay ~ ris aay cee ee ota f : siege TP ra Sra cs Ff
oA : Bead seb De eh PREM PP yeas BLO ORN Af Be PRET Prey: ap ta &
Ww thts, ALY ae LOG ae, QD PREG LAY ADP LG OE

7. Waives:

(a) Any and all claims that he may possess under the Equal Access to Justice
Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules
promulgated by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2018), relating to, or arising from, this
action;

(b) = Any and all claims that he may possess under the Small Business

Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II,
§§ 201-53, 110 Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C.
§ 2412 and in scattered sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or
arising from, this action;

(c) Any claim of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this action or
the entry in this action of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or
any other relief, including this Consent Order; and

(d) Any and all rights of appeal from this action;

8. Consents to the continued jurisdiction of this Court over him for the purpose of
implementing and enforcing the terms and conditions of this Consent Order and for any other
purpose relevant to this action, even if Slobodnik now or in the future resides outside the
jurisdiction of this Court;

9. Agrees that he will not oppose enforcement of this Consent Order on the ground,
if any exists, that it fails to comply with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
hereby waives any objection based thereon;

10. Agrees that neither he nor any of his agents or employees under his authority or
control shall take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
allegation in the Complaint , or creating or tending to create the impression that the Complaint
and/or this Consent Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this

provision shall affect his: (a) testimonial obligations, or (b) right to take legal positions in other

proceedings to which the Commission is not a party. Slobodnik shall comply with this
a
jot
fees!
£
td
be
ape
Dele
ai
c?9
ee
”
ae)
om
r-
wns,

agreement, and shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of his agents and/or
employees under his authority or control understand and comply with this agreement;

11. | Consents to the entry of this Consent Order without admitting or denying the
allegations of the Complaint or any findings or conclusions in this Consent Order, except as to
jurisdiction and venue, which he admits;

| 12. Consents to the use of the findings and conclusions in this Consent Order in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party or claimant, and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given
preclusive effect therein, without further proof;

13. Does not consent, however, to the use of this Consent Order, or the findings and
conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to
which the Commission is a party, other than a: statutory disqualification proceeding; proceeding
in bankruptcy, or receivership; or proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order;

14. Agrees to provide immediate notice to this Court and the Commission by certified
mail, in the manner required by paragraph 66 of Part VI of this Consent Order, of any
bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or against him, whether inside or outside the
United States; and

15. Agrees that no provision of this Consent Order shall in any way limit or impair
the ability of any other person or entity to seek any legal or equitable remedy against Slobodnik
in any other proceeding.

Il. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS
The Court, being fully advised in the premises, finds that there is good cause for the entry

of this Consent Order and that there is no just reason for delay. The Court therefore directs the
entry of the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, permanent injunction and equitable
relief pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), as set forth herein. The
findings and conclusions in this Consent Order are not binding on any other party to this action.
THE PARTIES AGREE AND THE COURT HEREBY FINDS:

A. Findings of Fact
The Parties To This Consent Order

16. _ Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent federal
regulatory agency that is charged by Congress with administering and enforcing the Act, and the
Regulations.

17. | Defendant Mark R. Slobodnik (“Slobodnik”) is a resident of Libertyville, Illinois
and was the president, head trader and a principal of Blue Guru. He was a Chicago Mercantile
Exchange (“CME”) member for approximately fifteen years until 2011, when he sold his seat on
the exchange. Slobodnik was registered with the CFTC as a floor broker From January 2001 to
August 2013, when his floor broker registration was withdrawn. He was a principal from May
2008 to October 2010 and associated person (“AP”) from May 2008 to August 2008 of MSLO
Asset Management, LLC, a former registered commodity trading advisor (“CTA”) and a
principal from September 2016 to October 2017 of MSLO Trading Group, another former
registered CTA.

Solicitation of Pool Participants

18. Slobodnik and a partner established Blue Guru in approximately April 2014 and
began soliciting and accepting funds for Blue Guru shortly thereafter. |

19. Blue Guru was essentially structured as a commodity pool. Prospective and
actual participants were advised that Blue Guru would use their money to trade Dow Jones E-

mini futures and S&P 500 E-mini futures on the CME, and distributed a “Confidential Private
Placement Memorandum” (“PPM”) which stated that “we intend to use the proceeds of the
Offering for buying and selling futures contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.”

20. As described in the PPM, participation interests in the Pool were structured in the
form of 12-month “Notes,” with “the principal amount will be paid at maturity, unless earlier
redeemed, and interest will be accrued and paid annually . . . at the rate of 8.0% (eight percent)
per annum, with a payout of 50% (fifty-percent) of the gross net profit from trading profits.” .

21. Moreover, the “Risk Factors” section of the PPM states, “We currently
collaborate with various trading firms and have developed a proprietary model for trading the
financial markets.” It also states “we are subject to Commodity Trading regulations” and that
“we will be substantially dependent upon our officers, specifically, Mr. Mark Slobodnik and Mr.
Richard Carter, who have significant experience in our business, to carry out our business plan.”
The “Business” section of the PPM states that “Trades will be made in an Omnibus account and
profits and losses are placed into member accounts on a percentage basis.”

22. Slobodnik and his partner solicited respective relatives, friends, business
associates, and others to invest in Blue Guru by various means, including in-person
communication, word-of-mouth and chat rooms. Slobodnik was responsible for bringing in a
minority of participants.

23. During solicitations made by Slobodnik or during which Slobodnik was present,
participants or prospective participants were not informed that Slobodnik had been suspended by
the CME for three months and ordered to pay a $50,000 fine for prearranged trading as part of a
money pass from Slobodnik to another member. See CME BCC 13-9259-BC posted November
20, 2014 Participants and prospective participants also were not informed of Slobodnik’s

partner’s disciplinary history.
24.  Slobodnik and his partner ultimately solicited and received $1,763,848 from 34
participants who signed Blue Guru subscription agreements. Less than two-thirds of those funds
were used for trading. Some participant funds were used to pay for the redemptions of others.

25. Blue Guru maintained four proprietary accounts at a registered futures
commission merchant (“FCM”); none was opened as a pool account, and none was profitable. In
aggregate, the four accounts received deposits totaling $1.1 million, sustained $501 000 in
trading losses, paid $62,000 in exchange and clearing fees, and processed $526,000 in
withdrawals, leaving an ending balance of $8,308.09 as of December 31, 2017.

Failure to Trade and Missappropriation of Funds

26. Contrary to the terms of the PPM and Subscription Agreements for Blue Guru,
Slobodnik and his partner did not trade all of the funds that pariticpants invested in Blue Guru, a
portion of which were misappropriated by Slobodnik and his partner.

27. Among other things, Slobodnik deposited $455,000 into the trading accounts, but
withdrew a total of $500,342.44, with the result that Slobodnik received $45,342.44 to which he
was not entitled.

28.  Slobodnik traded one of the four proprietary futures accounts at the FCM, losing
$132,000, and indirectly controlled trading in two other futures accounts that resulted in another
$117,000 in trading losses; thus, Slobodnik was responsible for approximately $249,000 of the
$501,000 trading losses incurred in the four accounts. During at least some communications or
in which Slobodnik directly or indirectly participated, or was present or aware of, Blue Guru
participants were advised that their funds were earning consistent trading profits.

29. | When participants requested to withdraw their funds from Blue Guru, Slobodnik

and/or his partner ignored their demands, engaged in delay tactics, and lied about conditions that
Ss i ce ~ - oe PR, 2 ty

ee oy TAB AO Pe een ~My aed. APP RBTO Maan 8 Af BO Bae all 46-739
“SF erie be Ah FF RPE Ea ae bs piers re) Pie FON MOAT Ao Paro d &£ FAS
Verb, 2b eS LLLP PPh Je PER. ALS ROY AO fF CARS GP a PCA PPP so

purportedly prevented them from making disbursements. For example, in response to a
December 29, 2017, redemption request from Blue Guru’s largest investor, Slobodnik wrote:
“can we all just sit down for a few moments when you have a chance so we can all just
understand where we are at? Your money will be returned, but we need to go through our
process. Can we just be decent to each other and not have all this angst. I was in process of
getting my life and ex wife {sic} taken care of and all of sudden all this craziness has happened.
It will be taken care of.”

B. Conclusions of Law

Jurisdiction and Venue

30. This Court possesses jurisdiction over this action pursuant 28 U.S.C. § 1331
(2012) (codifying federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. § 1345 (2012) (providing that U.S.
district courts have original jurisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by
any agency expressly authorized to sue by Act of Congress). Section 6c(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 13a-1(a) (2012), provides that the Commission may bring actions for injunctive relief or to
enforce compliance with the Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder in the proper district
court of the United States whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has
engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a violation of any
provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder.

31. | Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(e), because
Defendant Slobodnik resides in this jurisdiction and the acts and practices in violation of the Act

occurred within this District.
ag PAPO AP PN BR ow saan est olde Petin uk. aa
“Thay Oe AS Mactmant # AS Flen: TTs4
Des wate A ae WOU ASSL ee Ea SRE OP. Ae Ob GPG As. hat

r
ras
beet
uy
cD
Seeeth

Fraud by Misappropriation and Misrepresentations

32. | By the conduct described above, Slobodnik cheated and defrauded, or attempted
to cheat and defraud, and willfully deceived, or attempted to deceive, prospective and actual
participants by, among other things, knowingly or recklessly:

a. misappropriating participants’ funds; and
b. making material misrepresentations and omitting material facts to
prospective and actual participants, including that:
i. participant funds would be used to trade commodity futures
contracts in a pooled account(s) at a FCM;
il. participants were earning consistent profits on their investments;
i111. pool participants were guaranteed to earn profits of at least 8%,
annual returns and receive 50% of gross net trading profits, when
Slobidnik and others did not use some or all of participants’
investments to trade and had no basis for making these statements;
and
iv. refusing to allow participants to withdraw their funds.
in violation of Section 4b(a)(1)(A) and (C)of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(1)(A), (C) (2012).

Fraud by a CPO and AP of a CPO

33. By the conduct described above and in paragraphs 3-19 of the Blue Guru Order,
Blue Guru acted as a CPO in that it engaged in a business that is of the nature of an investment
trust, syndicate or similar form of enterprise operated for the purpose of trading in commodity
interests or commodity futures, and in connection therewith, solicited, accepted and received

funds from others for the purpose of trading in commodity interests and commodity futures.
e PRP AT PNW ew Anes t fis ERS r :
OOP 42> Document # 6? File
PMP EAP REAL ER EE OTP.

34. — By the conduct described above, Slobodnik acted as an AP of Blue Guru by
soliciting funds for the pool and handling participant monies while being associated with Blue
Guru as a partner, officer, employee, consultant, or agent (or person occupying a similar status or
performing similar functions).

35. _ As set forth above and in paragraphs 3-19 of the Blue Guru Order, Slobodnik,
while acting as an AP of a cro, and Blue Guru, while acting as a CPO, defrauded and deceived
participants of Blue Guru by using the mails or any other means of interstate commerce in
violation of Section 40(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 60(1) (2012), by among other things:

a. misappropriating participants’ funds; and
b. making material misrepresentations and omitting material facts to
prospective and actual participants:

36. As set forth above and in paragraphs 3-19 of the Blue Guru Order, Slobodnik,
while acting as an AP of a CPO, and Blue Guru, while acting as a CPO, defrauded and deceived
participants of Blue Guru by using the mails or any other means of interstate commerce in
violation of 7 U.S.C. § 60(1).

Failure to Register as a CPO

37. By the conduct described in paragraphs 3-19 of the Blue Guru Order, Blue Guru
engaged in activities as a CPO without the benefit of registration as a CPO, and in connection
therewith used the mails or other means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, in violation
of Section 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1) (2012).

Failure to Register as an AP and Allowing Unregistered APs to Remain Associated
with a CPO

38. By the conduct described above, Slobodnik violated Section 4k(2) of the Act,

7 U.S.C. § 6k(2) (2012), in that he acted as an AP of Blue Guru without the benefit of

10
et rN LN PE om AMAA aa CO PR LL PA
ABAD Pryactomant AO Pde Tit eitSs Dans Td af BO Banall £7285
MR, ERLE SRL TP Qa POA. ak add aa CAS }

x

Cad
cS

ee be ik So EET y
wea ASP Gi Fo CALAN ke Py
Nets

registration as an AP of a CPO. By the conduct described in pargraphs 3-19 of the Blue Guru
Order, Blue Guru violated 7 U.S.C. § 6k(2) in that, acting as a CPO, it allowed Slobodnik to act
as an AP when it knew or should have known that Slobodnik was not registered as an AP.

Derivative Liability

39. Slobodnik controlled Blue Guru, directly or indirectly, and did not act in good faith or
knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, Blue Guru’s act or acts in violation of the Act; therefore,
pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b) (2012), Slobodnik is liable for Blue Guru’s
violations of 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A), (C), 60(1), 6m(1) and 6(k)(2).

40. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, there is a reasonable likelihood that
Slobodnik will continue to engage in the acts and practices alleged in the Complaint and in

similar acts and practices in violation of the Act and Regulations.

IV. PERMANENT INJUNCTION
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
41. | Based upon and in connection with the foregoing conduct, pursuant to Section 6c
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), Slobodnik is permanently restrained, enjoined and
prohibited from directly or indirectly:

a. in connection with any order to make, or the making of, any contract of
sale of any commodity in interstate commerce or for future delivery that is
made, or to be made, on or subject to the rules of a designated contract
market, for or on behalf of any other person, (A) cheating or defrauding or
attempting to cheat or defraud such other person; or (C) willfully
deceiving or attempting to deceive such other person, in violation of
Section 4b(a)(1)(A),(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(1)(A),(C) (2012);

b. using the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce,
directly or indirectly, as a commodity pool operator (“CPO”) or associated
person (“AP”) of a CPO to (A) employ any device, scheme, or artifice to
defraud any participant; or (B) engage in any transaction, practice, or
course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any participant,
in violation of Section 40(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 60(1) (2012);

11
failing to register as a CPO in violation of Section 4m(1) of the Act,
7 ULS.C. § 6m(1) (2012); and

failing to register as an AP or permitting an AP to remain unregistered, in
violation of Section 4k(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6k(2) (2012).

42. For five years from the date of entry of this Order, Defendant Slobodnik is also

restrained, enjoined and prohibited from directly or indirectly:

a.

Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012));

Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (2018), for his own personal account
or for any account in which he has a direct or indirect interest;

Having any commodity interests traded on his behalf;

Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or
entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

Soliciting, receiving or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose
of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission, except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2018); and/or

Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R.

§ 3.1(a) (2018)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that
term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38) (2012)),
registered, exempted from registration or required to be registered with the
Commission except as provided for in 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9).

V. RESTITUTION, DISGORGEMENT AND CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY

A. Restitution

43.  Slobodnik shall pay restitution in the amount of two hundred and eighty thousand

dollars ($280,000) (“Restitution Obligation”), plus post-judgment interest. Post-judgment

interest shall accrue on the Restitution Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Consent

12
may, ti oP pee’ . A 2 s 4 la ew PN ~ st Cee PR a EE Lia PEWS
Socuimernt 2: GP Edad: TTP ait Pane Th of 2o Banal #7 RS
SURGERIES PER PRL Lee PUPA. Alay ea AP IP CRU 2 AGP ll PU CALA PLY Be. }

a Sa

Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of
this Consent Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

44. To effect payment of the Restitution Obligation and the distribution of any
restitution payments to Defendant Blue Guru’s pool participants, the Court appoints the National
Futures Association (“NFA”) as Monitor (“Monitor”). The Monitor shall receive restitution
payments from Slobodnik and make distributions as set forth below. Because the Monitor is
acting as an officer of this Court in performing these services, the NFA shall not be liable for any
action or inaction arising from NFA’s appointment as Monitor, other than actions involving
fraud.

45.  Slobodnik shall make Restitution Obligation payments, and any post-judgment
interest payments, under this Consent Order to the Monitor in the name “Mark R. Slobodnik
Restitution Fund” and shall send such payments by electronic funds transfer, or by U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order, to the Office of
Administration, National Futures Association, 300 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago,
Illinois 60606 under cover letter that identifies the paying Defendant and the name and docket
number of this proceeding. Defendant Slobodnik shall simultaneously transmit copies of the
cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

46. The Monitor shall oversee the Restitution Obligation and shall have the discretion
to determine the manner of distribution of such funds in an equitable fashion to participants
identified by the Commission or may defer distribution until such time as the Monitor deems
appropriate. In the event that the amount of Restitution Obligation payments to the Monitor are

of a de minimis nature such that the Monitor determines that the administrative cost of making a

13
7
ee
Sa
a
fs
-
oy
Fendi
oo
:.
ir
”
a
rf
rt
aa
yi
ce!
Ory
mm
aps,
b
“
oo
bead
Cas
‘.
dee
a5
a8]
£
r
es
we
Y

distribution to eligible participants is impractical, the Monitor may, in its discretion, treat such
restitution payments as civil monetary penalty payments, which the Monitor shall forward to the
Commission following the instructions for civil monetary penalty payments set forth in Part C
below.

47.  Slobodnik shall cooperate with the Monitor as appropriate to provide such
information as the Monitor deems necessary and appropriate to identify Defendant participants to
whom the Monitor, in its sole discretion, may determine to include in any plan for distribution of
any Restitution Obligation payments. Slobodnik shall execute any documents necessary to
release funds that he has in any repository, bank, investment or other financial institution,
wherever located, in order to make partial or total payment toward the Restitution Obligation.

48. | The Monitor shall provide the Commission at the beginning of each calendar year
with a report detailing the disbursement of funds to Blue Guru’s participants during the previous
year. The Monitor shall transmit this report under a cover letter that identifies the name and
docket number of this proceeding to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

49. The amounts payable to each participant shall not limit the ability of any
participant from proving that a greater amount is owed from Slobodnik or any other person or
entity, and nothing herein shall be construed in any way to limit or abridge the rights of any
participant that exist under state or common law.

50. Pursuant to Rule 71 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, each participant of
Blue Guru who suffered a loss is explicitly made an intended third-party beneficiary of this
Consent Order and may seek to enforce obedience of this Consent Order to obtain satisfaction of

any portion of the restitution that has not been paid by Defendant Slobodnik to ensure continued

14
Faia
-
Sad
ro
soe
a5
ao
Yee
o
we

compliance with any provision of this Consent Order and to hold Slobodnik in contempt for any
violations of any provision of this Consent Order.

51. To the extent that any funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of
Slobodnik’s Restitution Obligation, such funds shall be transferred to the Monitor for
disbursement in accordance with the procedures set forth above.

B. Disgorgement

52.  Slobodnik shall pay disgorgement in the amount of forty five thousand three
hundred forty two dollars and forty four cents ($45,342.44) (““Disgorgement Obligation”),
representing the gains received in connection with such violation(s), plus post-judgment interest.
Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the Disgorgement Obligation beginning on the date of
entry of this Consent Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on
the date of entry of this Consent Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

53. | The Court authorizes the Monitor to effect payment of the Disgorgement
Obligation and the distribution of any disgorgement payments to Defendant Blue Guru’s pool
participants. The Monitor shall receive disgorgement payments from Slobodnik and make
distributions as set forth below.

54. Slobodnik shall make Disgorgement Obligation payments, and any post-judgment
interest payments, under this Consent Order to the Monitor in the name “Mark R. Slobodnik
Disgorgement Fund” and shall send such payments by electronic funds transfer, or by U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order, to the Office of
Administration, National Futures Association, 300 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago,
Illinois 60606 under cover letter that identifies the paying Defendant and the name and docket

number of this proceeding. Defendant Slobodnik shall simultaneously transmit copies of the

15
rf
rt
yi
ce!
Ory
a
aps,
b
“
oo
bead
Cas
‘.
bebe
oa
a8]
we
r
es
we

cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

55. | The Monitor shall oversee the Disgorgement Obligation and shall have the
discretion to determine the manner of distribution of such funds in an equitable fashion to
participants identified by the Commission or may defer distribution until such time as the
Monitor deems appropriate. In the event that the amount of the Disgorgement Obligation
payments to the Monitor are of a de minimis nature such that the Monitor determines that the
administrative cost of making a distribution to eligible participants is impractical, the Monitor
may, in its discretion, treat such disgorgement payments as civil monetary penalty payments,
which the Monitor shall forward to the Commission following the instructions for civil monetary
penalty payments set forth in Part C below.

56.  Slobodnik shall cooperate with the Monitor as appropriate to provide such
information as the Monitor deems necessary and appropriate to identify participants to whom the
Monitor, in its sole discretion, may determine to include in any plan for distribution of any
Disgorgement Obligation payments. Slobodnik shall execute any documents necessary to
release funds that he has in any repository, bank, investment or other financial institution,
wherever located, in order to make partial or total payment toward the Disgorgement Obligation.

57. The Monitor shall provide the Commission at the beginning of each calendar year
with a report detailing the disbursement of funds to Blue Guru’s participants during the previous
year. The Monitor shall transmit this report under a cover letter that identifies the name and
docket number of this proceeding to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading

Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

16
a ae ae Ae .
Maes TPTalsAQOOAP Mncroment
LS LAL OMS ee LUO LU PP

58. | The amounts payable to each participant shall not limit the ability of any
participant from proving that a greater amount is owed from Slobodnik or any other person or
entity, and nothing herein shall be construed in any way to limit or abridge the rights of any
participant that exist under state or common law.

59. Pursuant to Rule 71 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, each participant of
Blue Guru who suffered a loss is explicitly made an intended third-party beneficiary of this
Consent Order and may seek to enforce obedience of this Consent Order to obtain satisfaction of
any portion of the disgorgement that has not been paid by Defendant Slobodnik to ensure
continued compliance with any provision of this Consent Order and to hold Slobodnik in
contempt for any violations of any provision of this Consent Order.

60. To the extent that any funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of
Slobodnik’s Disgorgement Obligation, such funds shall be transferred to the Monitor for
disbursement in accordance with the procedures set forth above.

C. Civil Monetary Penalty

61. | Slobodnik shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of forty five thousand
three hundred forty two dollars and forty four cents ($45,342.44) (“CMP Obligation”), plus post-
judgment interest. Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the
date of entry of this Consent Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Consent Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

62. Slobodnik shall pay his CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be
made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the

Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

17
AR ot MP PN Bw EPR OP A
a TR mb Oo Dansll # P7AR
AAS ASE Ge Po CALAN PAS! PP. FP Opa

Bt

MMAC/ESC/AMK326
' Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax

9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov
If payment by electronic funds transfer is chosen, Slobodnik shall contact Marie Thorne or her
successor at the address above to receive payment instructions and shall fully comply with those
instructions. Slobodnik shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that
identifies Slobodnik and the name and docket number of this proceeding. Slobodnik shall
simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial
Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street,
NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

D. Provisions Related to Monetary Sanctions

63. Partial Satisfaction: Acceptance by the Commission or the Monitor of any partial
payment of Slobodnik’s Restitution Obligation, Disgorgement Obligation, or CMP Obligation
shall not be deemed a waiver of his obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Consent
_ Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining
balance.

64. Asset Freeze: On January 25, 2018, the court entered a Consent Order for
Preliminary Injunction Against Mark R. Slobodnik prohibiting the transfer, removal, dissipation
and disposal of Slobodnik’s assets (“Asset Freeze Order”). The court hereby lifts this Asset

Freeze Order.

18
E. Cooperation

65. Slobodnik shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission, including
the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, in this action, and in any current or future
_ Commission investigation or action related thereto. Slobodnik shall also cooperate in any
investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to, or arising from, this action.
Slobodnik must also comply with the terms of the Cooperation Agreement entered into in

September 2018 with the Commission.

VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

66. Notice: All notices required to be given by any provision in this Consent Order

shall be sent certified mail, return receipt requested, as follows:
Notice to Commission:

Rosemary Hollinger

Deputy Director

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

525 West Monroe Street, Suite 1100

Chicago, IL 60661

Notice to Defendant Mark R. Slobodnk:
James L. Kopecky

Kopecky Schumacher Rosenburg PC

120 North LaSalle Street, Suite 200

Chicago, IL 60602
All such notices to the Commission shall reference the name and docket number of this action.

67. | Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Slobodnik satisfies in full his
Restitution Obligation, Disgorgement Obligation, and CMP Obligation as set forth in this
Consent Order, Slobodnik shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of

any change to his telephone number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the

change.

19
68. Entire Agreement and Amendments: This Consent Order incorporates all of the
terms and conditions of the settlement among the parties hereto to date. Nothing shall serve to
amend or modify this Consent Order in any respect whatsoever, unless: (a) reduced to writing;
(b) signed by all parties hereto; and (c) approved by order of this Court.

69. _—_ Invalidation: If any provision of this Consent Order or if the application of any
provision or circumstance is held invalid, then the remainder of this Consent Order and the
application of the provision to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected by the
holding.

70. | Waiver: The failure of any party to this Consent Order or of any participant at
any time to require performance of any provision of this Consent Order shall in no manner affect
the right of the party or participant at a later time to enforce the same or any other provision of
this Consent Order. No waiver in one or more instances of the breach of any provision contained
in this Consent Order shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of
such breach or waiver of the breach of any other provision of this Consent Order.

71. Continuing Jurisdiction of this Court: This Court shall retain jurisdiction of this
action to ensure compliance with this Consent Order and for all other purposes related to this
action, including any motion by Slobodnik to modify or for relief from the terms of this Consent
Order.

72. Injunctive and Equitable Relief Provisions: The injunctive and equitable relief
provisions of this Consent Order shall be binding upon Slobodnik, upon any person under his
authority or control, and upon any person who receives actual notice of this Consent Order, by
personal service, e-mail, facsimile or otherwise insofar as he or she is acting in active concert or

participation with Slobodnik.

20
73. Counterparts and Facsimile Execution: This Consent Order may be executed in
two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall
become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto
and delivered (by facsimile, e-mail, or otherwise) to the other party, it being understood that all
parties need not sign the same counterpart. Any counterpart or other signature to this Consent
Order that is delivered by any means shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and
valid execution and delivery by such party of this Consent Order.

74. Contempt: Slobodnik understands that the terms of the Consent Order are
enforceable through contempt proceedings, and that, in any such proceedings he may not
challenge the validity of this Consent Order.

75. Agreements and Undertakings: Slobodnik shall comply with all of the

undertakings and agreements set forth in this Consent Order.

21
Case: 1:18-cv-00242 Document #: 62 Filed: 11/13/18 Page 22 of 22 PagelD #:747

There being no just reason for delay, the Clerk of the Court is hereby ordered to enter this
Consent Order for Permanent Injunction znd other Ancillary Relief Against Mark R. Slobodnik

forthwith and without further notice

IT 1S SO ORDERED on this IZ My of loay~ 2018.

S S42

UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE

CONSENTED TO AND APPROVED BY

; a)
fhe QULA

Mark R. Sloboduik

 

Chief Trial AtlomeyCommodity Futures
‘Trading CommissionS25 West Monroe, Suite
1100Chicago, IL 60661

312-596-0523

Sgradman@efie,gov

Date: /¢ “1S =I ¥ Date: Ml-(Hl§ a

Approved as to form:

 

een eo Date } efis] rR
Jame? Kopecky
Kopecky Schumacher Rosenburg PC
120 North LaSalle Street, Suite 200

Chicago, If, 60602

312-380-6552

Counsel for Mark R. Slobodnik

nm
rary
