UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

  

yrs do,
In the Matter of: Sfx.
Interactive Brokers LLC, CFTC Docket No. 20-25 ss oF

Respondent. Proceedings Clerk

 

 

Nee Nee ee” ee ee” SN”

 

\ 7:20 am, Aug 10, 2020 /

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL sanctions

I. INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
Interactive Brokers LLC (“Interactive Brokers’’), a registered futures commission merchant
(“FCM”), has violated Commission Regulations (“Regulations”) 42.2 and 166.3, 17 C.F.R. §§
42.2, 166.3 (2019). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether
Interactive Brokers engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order
should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Interactive Brokers has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Interactive Brokers
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial sanctions (“Order”) and
acknowledges service of this Order.’

 

' Interactive Brokers consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this
Order in this proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the
Commission is a party or claimant, and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and be
given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Interactive Brokers does not consent,
however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any
other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant,
other than: a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a proceeding to enforce the terms of
this Order. Interactive Brokers does not consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any other proceeding.
II. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:

A. SUMMARY

From June 2014 through November 2018 (the “Relevant Period’), Interactive Brokers
failed to diligently supervise its employees’ handling of several commodity trading accounts held
at Interactive Brokers that were the subject of recent enforcement actions and nonpublic
investigations initiated by the Commission. The account holders involved in those matters
include Haena Park (“‘Park’’), Nathan Schleifer (‘Schleifer’), and Hyun Joo (a/k/a Grace) Hong
(“Grace Hong’), along with two additional individuals (‘Customer A” and “Customer B’’)
against whom the Commission has not filed charges to date. Interactive Brokers’ failure to
provide sufficient oversight of its employees’ handling of these accounts contributed to its failure
to maintain an adequate anti-money laundering (“AML”) program and to conduct appropriate
customer monitoring. As a result, Interactive Brokers employees failed to identify or adequately
investigate certain indicia of suspicious activity in the accounts at issue that, according to
Interactive Brokers’ own compliance procedures and given its knowledge of each customer’s
background and trading patterns, should have prompted the filing of Suspicious Activity Reports
(“SARs”) with appropriate authorities. In each matter, Interactive Brokers failed to file a SAR
when it had a duty to do so.

In three of the underlying matters, unbeknownst to Interactive Brokers, the account
holders used their accounts at Interactive Brokers to defraud investors of millions of dollars.
Moreover, in several of the matters, Interactive Brokers learned, through responding to a
subpoena or other request from a government authority, that the account holder was under
investigation by a regulator or law enforcement agency but did not adequately conduct its own
investigation to determine whether to file a SAR.

As these failures reflect, Interactive Brokers lacked a reasonably designed process for
conducting investigations of account activity and making SAR determinations. Interactive
Brokers also failed to ensure that its officers, employees, and agents followed its established
policies and procedures with respect to customer surveillance. By virtue of this conduct,
Interactive Brokers engaged in acts and practices that violated Regulations 42.2 and 166.3, 17
C.F.R. §§ 42.2, 166.3 (2019).

B. RESPONDENT

Interactive Brokers LLC is registered with the Commission as an FCM that maintains its
principal place of business at One Pickwick Plaza, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830. Interactive
Brokers has been registered with the Commission since December 2, 1994. Interactive Brokers
is also a Forex Dealer Member of the National Futures Association (“NFA”).
C. FACTS

1. Interactive Brokers Failed to Implement Reasonably Designed Policies and
Procedures to Detect and Cause the Reporting of Suspicious Transactions.

Interactive Brokers had an AML program in effect during the Relevant Period that
consisted of written supervisory procedures (“WSPs”), among other components. Interactive
Brokers’ WSPs relating to the filing of SARs incorporated the requirements of regulations
promulgated by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”), including FinCEN
Regulation 1026.320, 31 C.F.R. § 1026.320 (2019), which dictates when FCMs such as
Interactive Brokers must file SARs. The WSPs also identified specific “red flags” that could
necessitate the filing of aSAR. Some of the red flags that Interactive Brokers compliance
personnel were expected to detect and investigate included situations where a customer’s account
had “inflows of funds or other assets well beyond the known income or resources of the
[c]ustomer,” or where a customer’s transactions and/or volume of aggregate activity were
“inconsistent with the expected purpose of the account” or were “unusual and unexpected” in
comparison with other market participants.

In the event that Interactive Brokers compliance personnel detected any suspicious
activity, the WSPs required them to promptly notify designated officers in the compliance
department. The WSPs required those officers to perform additional due diligence and evaluate
whether to file a SAR, taking into consideration Interactive Brokers’ “knowledge of the
[c]ustomer’s business practices, trading activity[,] and trading patterns” and “all of the facts and
circumstances relating to the particular customer and the particular transaction.”

While Interactive Brokers maintained these basic written policies, it failed to commit
adequate resources to its AML program during the Relevant Period to ensure that it was
reasonably equipped to monitor, detect, escalate, and report suspicious activity in practice. In
particular, Interactive Brokers failed to employ a sufficient number of compliance analysts to
adequately review dozens of lengthy surveillance reports for suspicious activity across
Interactive Brokers’ customer base. In addition, although the WSPs represented that these
various reports were “designed to identify potential trading rule violations, including
manipulative practices[,|’ Interactive Brokers had no mechanism to combine information
generated by the reports to identify patterns and trends across them over time. As a result,
analysts searched for relevant information manually across systems and spreadsheets, including
the number of times an account had appeared on a particular report and whether an account was
appearing on multiple reports. Likewise, to identify if an account holder had been the subject of
previous investigations, regulatory inquiries, or SAR filings, analysts had to search through
internal communications and then contact the Interactive Brokers staff involved in any prior
investigation to understand what documentation was utilized and what conclusions were reached.
Given the size and nature of Interactive Brokers’ business, these procedures limited the ability of
analysts to recognize the full scope of a customer’s activity and led them to overlook facts and
circumstances that amounted to red flags.

In addition, Interactive Brokers had no policies or procedures in place requiring that
compliance personnel document steps taken and decisions made during the investigative and
SAR consideration process. Consequently, other than analysts’ notes on the surveillance reports
themselves or in emails escalating potentially suspicious activity, Interactive Brokers staff failed
to keep complete and detailed written records when conducting investigations and making SAR
filing determinations. The lack of documentation reflected the absence of a comprehensive,
standardized procedure for opening, conducting, escalating, and concluding investigations.

2. Interactive Brokers Failed to Diligently Supervise Its Employees’ Handling
of the Accounts at Issue and Failed to Timely Report Suspicious Activity to
the Appropriate Authorities.

As a result of the deficiencies in Interactive Brokers’ process for monitoring customer
accounts, Interactive Brokers failed to detect and/or report instances of suspicious activity during
the Relevant Period, in the matters described below.

a. Park
1. The Commission’s Action Against Park

On June 2, 2016, the Commission filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York against Park and her companies, Phaetra Capital GP LLC,
Phaetra Capital Management LP, and Argenta Group LLC (collectively, the “Park Entities’’), that
resulted in the entry of a consent permanent injunction. CFTC v. Park, No. 1:16-cv-04120
(S.D.N.Y. Feb. 7, 2018), ECF No. 50. The order found that from at least January 2010 through
June 2016, Park and the Park Entities fraudulently induced fifty members of the public to invest
over $23 million in an unregistered commodity pool that traded futures contracts as well as
leveraged or margined retail off-exchange foreign currencies. /d. at 7. °

The order further found that Park transferred the funds contributed by pool participants
into a personal trading account maintained in her own name at Interactive Brokers, where she
traded on behalf of the pool. In total, Park deposited $21 million of pooled funds into her
Interactive Brokers account, and she sustained losses in seventy-four of the ninety-one months
that she traded. Unbeknownst to Interactive Brokers, Park also withdrew and misappropriated
funds not lost in trading for her personal use. Her trading losses, including commissions and
fees, ultimately totaled nearly $19 million, which constituted 99% of the pooled funds remaining
in her Interactive Brokers account after the withdrawals. Jd. at 8.°

 

* On December 3, 2018, the court entered an Opinion and Order in the Commission’s case
further requiring the Park Entities to pay nearly $23 million in restitution to defrauded investors
(less amounts paid by Park towards the restitution amount ordered in the criminal action). CFTC
v. Park, No. 16-cv-4120 (VEC), 2018 WL 6324810, at *3-5 (Dec. 3, 2018).

>OnJ uly 8, 2016, Park was indicted in a related criminal proceeding in the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York. Indictment, United States v. Park, No. 1:16-cr-00473
(S.D.N.Y. July 8, 2016), ECF No. 9. She pleaded guilty to one count of commodities fraud and
was subsequently sentenced to a three-year term of imprisonment and ordered to pay $23 million
in restitution, reflecting the net loss to the victims of her scheme. Judgment in a Criminal Case,
il. Interactive Brokers Failed to Diligently Supervise its Employees’
Handling of Park’s Account and Failed to Promptly Report Her
Activities.

At the time that Park opened her account at Interactive Brokers, she executed account
opening documents in which she represented to Interactive Brokers that she was self-employed
as an “‘at home trader” and had no other sources of income. She also represented that her net
worth was between $5 million and $10 million.

Over the course of Park’s trading at Interactive Brokers, the money flowing into her
account increased significantly. For example, in 2012, Park made several deposits into her
account totaling $2.7 million. Thereafter, in 2013, 2014, and 2015, Park deposited $2.6 million,
$3.4 million, and $7.9 million into the account, respectively. These amounts, when taken
together, exceeded Park’s stated net worth as originally disclosed in her account opening
documents and were of a size that suggested she may have been trading using funds provided by
third parties. Simultaneously, Park significantly increased her trading in her Interactive Brokers
account and sustained substantial losses. For example, in 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, Park lost
$2.5 million, $2.2 million, $2.3 million, and $7.8 million, respectively.

Park’s account regularly appeared on various surveillance reports generated by
Interactive Brokers’ compliance department. In particular, at least five times between October
2014 and January 2016, Park was included in a monthly report identifying all customers who had
more than six withdrawals and/or deposits in a given month. Interactive Brokers’ WSPs
instructed compliance analysts to review this report in the context of other activity in the account
and information known about the customer to determine if the activity was suspicious. By
September 2014, the cumulative deposits into Park’s account totaled approximately $10.2
million, exceeding her stated net worth of $10 million.

In addition, at least a dozen times between January 2013 and December 2015, Park
appeared on a report that identified account holders whose losses exceeded a certain percentage
of their stated liquid net worth. The report was run monthly and searched for data over the prior
six months. Each time Park appeared on this report, Interactive Brokers compliance staff
conducted only a cursory review of her trading activity without verifying the source of the funds
Park deposited into her account. Interactive Brokers staff also failed to fully and accurately
document the items they reviewed in concluding that Park’s trading activity did not require
further investigation or monitoring.

By November 2014, Park’s cumulative losses totaled $9.6 million, and her cumulative
deposits totaled nearly $10.7 million. At that point, the flow of funds into her account relative to
her stated net worth, and her lack of regard for the profitability of her trades, were indicia
suggesting that she may have been pooling the funds of third parties—transactions in which

 

Park, No. 1:16-cr-00473 (S.D.N.Y. July 11, 2017), ECF No. 43, and Amended Order of
Restitution, Park, No. 1:16-cr-00473 (S.D.N.Y. October 1, 2019), ECF No. 55.
Interactive Brokers should not have expected Park to engage. Park also appeared on multiple
surveillance reports in subsequent months that should have prompted a review of her account.
Pursuant to Interactive Brokers’ WSPs and FinCEN Regulation 1026.320, 31 C.F.R. § 1026.320
(2019), Interactive Brokers should have recognized her account activity as suspicious and filed a
SAR by no later than February 2015, but it failed to do so.

b. Schleifer
i. The Commission’s Action Against Schleifer

On April 12, 2016, the Commission filed and settled fraud and related charges against
Schleifer and his company, Galileo Trading, LLC (“Galileo”). In re Galileo Trading, LLC,
CFTC No. 16-14, 2016 WL 1534231 (Apr. 2, 2016). From 2009 through 2014, Schleifer and
Galileo fraudulently solicited at least $1.8 million from multiple individuals for the stated
purpose of managing futures trading accounts at Interactive Brokers on their behalf. Despite
representing that he was an experienced commodities trader and that he had a profitable trading
history, between 2008 and 2014, none of the accounts Schleifer managed at Interactive Brokers
were profitable. /d. at *1-2. In settling the Commission’s charges against them, Schleifer and
Galileo agreed to pay approximately $1.2 million in restitution to defrauded customers, a
$420,000 civil monetary penalty, and $38,022 in disgorgement of ill-gotten gains. Id. at *7-8.

il. Interactive Brokers Failed to Diligently Supervise its Employees’
Handling of Schleifer’s Accounts and Failed to Promptly Report
His Activities.

Galileo had registered with the Commission as a Commodity Pool Operator (“CPO”) and
a Commodity Trading Advisor (“CTA”) in 2004, and Schleifer registered with the Commission
as an Associated Person (“AP’’) of Galileo that same year. Schleifer did not disclose his
registration to Interactive Brokers when he opened personal trading accounts at the firm in 2008,
and Interactive Brokers did not otherwise detect Schleifer’s registration as an AP of a CPO/CTA
at any point during the life of his personal accounts or the accounts of his customers.

Interactive Brokers conducted an investigation of Schleifer’s accounts in 2014 after
receiving a grand jury subpoena from the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office related to his
trading activities. For at least a year at that point, Schleifer had been marketing himself on a
public website for Galileo that touted the fact he was registered with the Commission and
discussed his trading of futures, equities, and options contracts. Interactive Brokers failed to
detect Galileo’s website and failed to detect that Schleifer had lied on his account opening
documents with respect to his registration status. Interactive Brokers also received a request
from the Commission for information related to Schleifer in October 2014.

The WSPs instructed Interactive Brokers’ employees to file continuing-activity SARs
where suspicious activity continued, and did not include an exception for circumstances where a
law enforcement agency was investigating the matter. Nevertheless, Interactive Brokers failed to
file a SAR regarding Schleifer’s trading activities following its receipt of the grand jury
subpoena and the Commission’s request, based on Interactive Brokers’ employees’ erroneous
belief that a SAR did not have to be filed when a government agency was aware of the conduct
in question, and he continued trading for several managed accounts after that point. In 2016,
Interactive Brokers learned that the Commission had ordered Schleifer to pay restitution and
penalties in connection with his investment scheme but still did not file a SAR at that time.

c. Grace Hong
1. The Commission’s Action Against Grace Hong

On June 1, 2017, the Commission filed a complaint against Grace Hong and her husband,
Sung (a/k/a Lawrence or Laurence) Hong (“Lawrence Hong” and together with his wife, the
‘“Hongs’’), in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. That case resulted
in a default order. CFTC v. Pishon Holding LLC, No. 17-cv-00847, 2018 WL 6812655 (W.D.
Wash. Dec. 27, 2018), ECF No. 68. The order found that the Hongs fraudulently solicited more
than $11 million from customers for the purpose of trading futures contracts via their company,
Pishon Holding, LLC (“Pishon’’), and misappropriated more than $1.2 million in customer funds.
Additionally, the Hongs misrepresented the success of their trading history and the advisor fees
Pishon would charge customers. They also failed to inform customers that Lawrence Hong had
previously pleaded guilty to wire fraud and served thirty-three months in prison in connection
with an earlier investment scheme. /d. at *3-6.

The order further found that based on the Hongs’ fraudulent representations and
omissions, their customers opened and funded twelve futures trading accounts at Interactive
Brokers and authorized Pishon to control the trading in those accounts. While the Hongs had
told investors that fees would only be taken from profits, they included a clause in their customer
investment agreements that permitted Pishon to receive a “performance fee” equal to 25% of
each customer’s quarterly account value, regardless of whether the account was profitable. Per
the customer agreements, Interactive Brokers withdrew the performance fee from client accounts
and transferred the funds to an account held in Pishon’s name. The Hongs then transferred the
funds to Pishon’s bank account for their personal use. /d. at *5.7 4

il. Interactive Brokers Failed to Diligently Supervise its Employees’
Handling of Pishon’s Accounts.

By early 2017, some of Pishon’s customers began contacting Interactive Brokers’
customer service department with questions and concerns about their accounts. In one instance,
a representative of a church group that held an account with Pishon noticed that Pishon had

 

* The Hongs were separately arrested and indicted in a parallel criminal proceeding in the U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Washington in which they ultimately pleaded guilty to
multiple counts. Plea Agreements, United States v. Hong, No. 17-cr-00163 (W.D. Wash. Mar.
27 and 30, 2018), ECF Nos. 85 and 88. In October 2018, Lawrence Hong was sentenced to a
180-month prison term, and Grace Hong was sentenced to a 72-month prison term. The court in
the criminal matter also ordered that the Hongs pay nearly $13 million in restitution. Judgments
, Hong, No. 17-cr-00163 (W.D. Wash. Oct. 11, 2018), ECF Nos. 130 and 132.
charged the account approximately $57,000 in fees over one quarter. The customer contacted
Interactive Brokers in February 2017 to inquire about the management fees Pishon had charged
to the group’s account.

One of Interactive Brokers’ customer service representatives reviewed the account and
explained to the representative that the group was being charged an annualized percentage of
25% of the account’s net liquidation value applied on a quarterly basis. The Interactive Brokers
representative commented that the fees appeared abnormally high, that the typical advisor rate
was between 0.5% and 2.5% of an account’s value, and that the group should consider
terminating its relationship with Pishon. Although during the Relevant Period customer service
representatives were required to participate in AML training, Interactive Brokers had no written
policies or procedures in place to address the training of customer service representatives or any
other functions outside of the compliance department in the identification of suspicious activity.
Despite flagging the abnormally high rate to the customer and the Interactive Brokers
employee’s knowledge that Pishon was charging such excessive fees, the employee failed to
escalate Pishon’s activities for further review.

d. Customer A

i. Interactive Brokers Failed to Diligently Supervise its Employees’
Handling of Customer A’s Account and Failed to Promptly
Report Their Activities.

In January 2015, Customer A opened a personal trading account at Interactive Brokers.
Eight months later, CME Group (“CME’”’) sent a request to Interactive Brokers for information
regarding order placement activity by Customer A. Customer A had been placing very large
market orders that frequently traded through numerous price levels and may have caused futures
prices to fluctuate. Customer A’s transactions incurred repeated and significant losses. Later in
2015, CME opened a formal investigation into Customer A’s trading activity and notified
Interactive Brokers’ Chief Compliance Officer of that fact in writing.

Interactive Brokers proceeded to conduct its own review of Customer A’s trading activity
and found that Customer A manually placed large market orders in index futures, which due to
their immense size, would execute through the liquidity in the open order book and cause
adverse movements in the market price of the contract being traded. Interactive Brokers also
identified multiple instances where Customer A had violated the margin requirements applicable
to their account. When Customer A represented to Interactive Brokers that Customer A was not
attempting to manipulate or disrupt the market, Interactive Brokers discussed with Customer A
alternative order types that would allow Customer A to achieve the same outcome with less
disruption to the market. However, Customer A did not continue to use these order types and
Interactive Brokers allowed Customer A to continue trading without filing a SAR.

In the first two years of trading with Interactive Brokers, Customer A deposited tens of
millions of dollars and had almost as much in trading losses. Customer A’s account appeared on
multiple surveillance reports and alerts generated by Interactive Brokers’ compliance department
during that period. In addition, the volume of Customer A’s transactions was unusual compared
to other market participants—a red flag identified by Interactive Brokers’ WSPs as requiring
investigation and escalation.

However, Interactive Brokers did not timely file a SAR in connection with Customer A
when it had reason to suspect that a SAR was warranted.

e. Customer B
i. Interactive Brokers Failed to Diligently Supervise its Employees’
Handling of Customer B’s Accounts and Failed to Promptly
Report Their Activities.

In 2013, Customer B opened one of several accounts at Interactive Brokers. A few years
prior, Customer B had been fined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC’’) for
defrauding mutual fund shareholders and served time in prison following a parallel criminal
proceeding. At the time that Customer B opened their first account, Interactive Brokers lacked
appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting customer due diligence, nor did Interactive
Brokers place Customer B on a watch list for any enhanced ongoing monitoring.

In or around August 2018, Customer B embarked on a new trading strategy and began
accumulating VIX futures contracts in various maturities. By mid-October 2018, Customer B’s
positions in VIX contracts were unusually large for the market. Around that time, Interactive
Brokers’ risk department began communicating with Customer B about implementing position
limits and ultimately instructed Customer B to drastically trim their positions. By the end of
October 2018, Customer B moved half of their account balances to another FCM.

Customer B’s accumulation of such a large position constituted a red flag warranting
further investigation under Interactive Brokers’ WSPs. The WSPs instructed employees to
promptly notify senior officers in the compliance department if a customer’s transactions and/or
volumes of aggregate activity were unusual and unexpected in comparison with the volumes of
similarly situated businesses. The WSPs further provided that if Interactive Brokers personnel
knew that a customer had “a questionable background” or was “the subject of news reports
indicating possible criminal, civil, or regulatory violations,” those circumstances would
constitute an additional red flag requiring investigation. Moreover, on or about October 22,
2018, the NFA sent a request for information to Interactive Brokers on behalf of the Cboe
Futures Exchange regarding the nature of Customer B’s accounts and their trading strategies.

Notwithstanding the NFA inquiry, Interactive Brokers failed to conduct an AML
investigation to determine whether, in light of Customer B’s trading patterns, and their
regulatory and criminal background, a SAR should be filed.

3. Interactive Brokers’ Remediation

The Commission recognizes that since the commencement of its investigation, Interactive
Brokers has engaged in remedial measures relating to its AML program. Interactive Brokers
represents that it has enhanced its internal controls designed to detect suspicious activity, as
detailed in Part V.F., below.
Hil. LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Interactive Brokers Failed to Create an Adequate Supervisory System and to
Diligently Supervise its Officers, Employees, and Agents in violations of Regulation
166.3.

Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2019), imposes on every Commission registrant
(except associated persons who have no supervisory duties) an affirmative duty to “diligently
supervise the handling by its partners, officers, employees and agents . . . of all commodity
interest accounts carried, operated, advised or introduced by the registrant and all other activities
of its partners, officers, employees and agents . . . relating to its business as a Commission
registrant.” A violations of Regulation 166.3 is an independent violations for which no underlying
violations is necessary. See, e.g., In re Collins, CFTC No. 94-13, 1997 WL 761927, at *10 (Dec.
10, 1997) (‘It is well settled that a violations under Rule 166.3 is ‘an independent and primary
violations for which no underlying violations is necessary.’” (citation omitted)); In re GNP
Commodities, Inc., CFTC No. 89-1, 1992 WL 201158, at *17 n.11 (Aug. 11, 1992) (“Rule 166.3
establishes failure to supervise as an independent and primary violations... .” (citation omitted)),
aff'd in part and modified sub nom. Monieson v. CFTC, 996 F.2d 852 (7th Cir. 1993).

For a registrant to fulfill its duties under Regulation 166.3, it must both design an
adequate program of supervision and ensure that the program is followed. See GNP
Commodities, 1992 WL 201158, at *17-19 (providing that, even if an adequate supervisory
system is in place, Regulation 166.3 can still be violated if the supervisory system is not
diligently administered). As a result, a violations of Regulation 166.3 “is demonstrated by
showing either that: (1) the registrant’s supervisory system was generally inadequate; or (2) the
registrant failed to perform its supervisory duties diligently.” Jn re FCStone, LLC, CFTC No.
15-21, 2015 WL 2066891, at *3 (May 1, 2015) (consent order) (citing In re Murlas
Commodities, Inc., CFTC No. 85-29, 1995 WL 523563, at *9 (Sept. 1, 1995)). Evidence of
violations that “should be detected by a diligent system of supervision, either because of the
nature of the violations or because the violations have occurred repeatedly[,]” is probative of a
failure to supervise. In re Paragon Futures Ass’n, CFTC No. 88-18, 1992 WL 74261, at *14
(Apr. 1, 1992).

As set forth above, Interactive Brokers both failed to adopt an adequate supervisory
system and failed to perform its supervisory duties diligently in violations of Regulation 166.3.
First, Interactive Brokers failed to create sufficient policies and procedures for documenting,
monitoring, and reporting suspicious trading practices as required by the Bank Secrecy Act
(“BSA”’) and for training personnel to identify transactions or issues that warranted investigation.
Second, Interactive Brokers failed to diligently supervise its employees to ensure compliance
with existing written policies regarding the investigation of account activity. As a result,
Interactive Brokers violated Regulation 166.3.

B. Interactive Brokers Failed to Timely File SARs in violations of Regulation 42.2.

Section 4g(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act’), 7 U.S.C. § 6g(a) (2018),
requires FCMs (among others) to “make such reports as are required by the Commission

10
regarding transactions and positions of such [FCM], and the transactions and position of the
customer thereof][.]” Section 8a(5) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 12a(5) (2018), authorizes the
Commission “to make and promulgate such rules and regulations as, in the judgment of

the Commission, are reasonably necessary to effectuate any of the provisions or to accomplish
any of the purposes of [the Act]. Relying on the Commission’s authority under Sections 4g
and 8a of the Act, among other provisions, the Commission issued Regulation 42.2, 17 C.F.R. §
42.2 (2019), which in relevant part requires every FCM to “comply with the applicable
provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and the regulations promulgated by the Department of the
Treasury under that Act at 31 CFR chapter X[.]” Accordingly, Regulation 42.2 requires
compliance with the regulations promulgated by FinCEN, a bureau of the Department of the
Treasury, under the BSA. Those regulations include FinCEN Regulation 1026.320, 31 C.F.R. §
1026.320 (2019), which, as stated above, dictates in what circumstances an FCM such as
Interactive Brokers must file SARs.

FinCEN Regulation 1026.320(a)(1)—(2) requires FCMs to file a report of any suspicious
transaction if the transaction is conducted (or attempted) through the FCM, involves funds of at
least $5,000, and the FCM “knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction[,]”
among other things:

(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in
order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity Gncluding,
without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such
funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation
or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;

(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any
requirements of [Chapter X] or of any other regulations promulgated under the
Bank Secrecy Act;

(111) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the
particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the FCM or
[introducing broker in commodities (“IB-C”’)] knows of no_ reasonable
explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the
background and possible purpose of the transaction; or

(iv) Involves use of the FCM or IB-C to facilitate criminal activity.

A suspicious transaction must be reported by filing a SAR “no later than 30 calendar days
after the date of the initial detection by the reporting FCM .. . of facts that may constitute a basis
for filing a SAR[.]” 31 C.F.R. § 1026.320(b)(3). An FCM may delay filing for an additional
thirty days if no suspect is identified on the date of the initial detection, but filing may not occur
more than sixty days after the initial detection. Jd. FCMs must also implement and maintain a
written AML program that includes, among other things, appropriate risk-based procedures for
conducting ongoing customer due diligence. /d. § 1026.210(b)(5)(i)-(i). Those procedures
must include but not be limited to “(i) [u]nderstanding the nature and purpose of customer
relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and (41) [c]onducting ongoing

11
monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and
update customer information.” /d.

SARs “assist law enforcement in detecting whether transactions have ‘no apparent or
lawful purpose,’ or involve ‘funds derived from illegal activity,’ ‘structuring or other means’ of
evading requirements of the BSA, or the ‘facilitat[ion] of illegal activity.”” SEC v. Alpine Sec.
Corp., 308 F. Supp. 3d 775, 796 (S.D.N.Y. 2018) (alteration in original) (quoting 31 C.F.R. §
1023.320(a)(2)), appeal docketed, No. 19-3272 (2d Cir. Oct. 10, 2019) (addressing the SEC’s
enforcement of SAR filing and recordkeeping requirements against broker-dealers pursuant to
SEC Rule 17a-8, 17 C.F.R. § 240.17a-8 (2019)). The reporting requirements set out in the BSA
‘are not casual,” but rather, “[t]he SAR framework allocates scarce government resources to
protect public security by placing the burden of compliance, and of distilling a wide range of
possibly relevant information into a SAR narrative, on [regulated entities].” /d. at 799-800.

Here, Interactive Brokers had reason to suspect that the transactions at issue had no
business or lawful purpose, were not the sort in which the particular customers would normally
be expected to engage, and/or involved the use of Interactive Brokers to facilitate criminal
activity. As aresult, Interactive Brokers had a duty to file SARs in each matter within thirty
days after it initially detected facts, as detailed above, that may have constituted a basis for filing
a SAR. By failing to do so, Interactive Brokers violated Regulation 42.2.

IV. FINDINGS OF violations

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,
Interactive Brokers failed to: (1) adequately supervise its officers, employees, and agents in
violations of Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2019); and (2) failed to file SARs when it had
a duty to do so in violations of Regulation 42.2, 17 C.F.R. § 42.2 (2019).

V. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Interactive Brokers has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on a violations of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;

12
Judicial review by any court;

Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,

5 U.S.C. § 504 (2018) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2018), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2019), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II, §§ 201-253, 110
Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
and

Any claims of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief, including this Order;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Interactive Brokers has consented in the Offer;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1.

Makes findings by the Commission that Interactive Brokers violated Regulations
42.2 and 166.3, 17 C.F.R. 8§ 42.2, 166.3 (2019);

Orders Interactive Brokers to cease and desist from violating Regulations 42.2 and
166.3;

Orders Interactive Brokers to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of eleven
million five hundred thousand dollars ($11,500,000), plus post-judgment interest,
within ten days of the date of entry of this Order; and

Orders Interactive Brokers and its successors and assigns to comply with the
conditions and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of
this Order, including, but not limited to, Interactive Brokers’ undertaking to pay
disgorgement in the amount of seven hundred six thousand two hundred fourteen
dollars and sixty-seven cents ($706,214.67), plus post-judgment interest according
to the terms set forth below; and

Represents that since the commencement of the Commission’s investigation, Interactive
Brokers has engaged in substantial remedial measures relating to its AML program,
including enhancing its internal controls designed to detect suspicious activity through,
among other things:

13
1. The reorganization of Interactive Brokers’ compliance department and the hiring
of dozens of new AML-dedicated staff to perform customer surveillance functions,
including senior personnel with regulatory and law-enforcement backgrounds;

2. The engagement of outside consultants to conduct various reviews, assessments,
and independent testing of Interactive Brokers’ AML program;

3. Updated training at onboarding and on a recurring basis concerning surveillance
systems and processes;

4. Enhanced policies and procedures related to investigations of customer conduct;

5. The development and ongoing implementation of a new case management system
and new surveillance reports; and

6. Engaged an outside consultant to conduct the annual independent audit of its AML
program.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Interactive Brokers and its successors and assigns shall cease and desist from violating
Regulations 42.2 and 166.3, 17 C.F.R. §§ 42.2, 166.3 (2019).

Interactive Brokers shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of eleven million
five hundred thousand dollars ($11,500,000) (‘CMP Obligation”) within ten days of the
date of the entry of this Order. If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten days
of the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP
Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using
the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §
1961 (2018).

Interactive Brokers shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by
electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check,
or bank money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer,
then the payment shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and sent to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

14
(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC @ faa. gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Interactive Brokers shall contact
Marie Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and
shall fully comply with those instructions. Interactive Brokers shall accompany payment
of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that identifies Interactive Brokers as the payer
and the name and docket number of this proceeding. Interactive Brokers shall
simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief
Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre,
1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, DC 20581.

Interactive Brokers and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following
conditions and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1.

Public Statements: Interactive Brokers agrees that neither it nor any of its
successors and assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control shall
take any action or make any public statement on behalf of Interactive Brokers
denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order or
creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Interactive
Brokers’: (1) testimonial obligations; or (41) right to take legal positions in other
proceedings to which the Commission is not a party. Interactive Brokers and its
successors and assigns shall comply with this agreement, and shall undertake all
steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under its
authority or control understand and comply with this agreement.

Disgorgement: Interactive Brokers agrees to pay disgorgement in the amount of
seven hundred six thousand two hundred fourteen dollars and sixty-seven cents
($706,214.67) (“Disgorgement Obligation’’) within ten days of the date of the
entry of this Order. If the Disgorgement Obligation is not paid in full within ten
days of the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on
the Disgorgement Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and
shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry
of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2018).

To effect payment of the Disgorgement Obligation by Interactive Brokers and the
distribution of disgorged funds, the Commission appoints the NFA as “Monitor.”
The Monitor shall receive payment of the Disgorgement Obligation and any post-
judgment interest from Interactive Brokers and make distributions as set forth
below. Because the Monitor is not being specially compensated for these
services, and these services are outside the normal duties of the Monitor, it shall
not be liable for any action or inaction arising from its appointment as Monitor,
other than actions involving fraud.

Interactive Brokers shall pay the Disgorgement Obligation and any post-judgment
interest under this Order by electronic funds transfer, or U.S. postal money order,

15
certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order to the Office of
Administration, National Futures Association, 300 South Riverside Plaza, Suite
1800, Chicago, Illinois 60606, under cover of a letter that identifies Interactive
Brokers as the payer, the name and docket number of this proceeding, and the
amount and method of payment. Interactive Brokers shall simultaneously
transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Director,
Division of Enforcement, and the Chief Financial Officer, at Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington,
D.C. 20581.

The Commission will provide to the Monitor a list of Park’s customers to whom
the disgorged funds should be paid, their last-known addresses, and the estimated
amounts owed by Park to each of them. The Monitor shall distribute
disgorgement funds to those customers in an equitable manner as determined by
the Monitor. The Monitor shall oversee the distribution of funds of the
Disgorgement Obligation and shall have the discretion to defer distribution until
such time as it may deem appropriate. In the event that the amount of payments
of the Disgorgement Obligation to the Monitor are of a de minimis nature such
that the Monitor determines that the administrative cost of making a disgorgement
distribution is impractical, the Monitor may, in its discretion, treat such
disgorgement payments as civil monetary penalty payments, which the Monitor
shall forward to the Commission following the instructions for the CMP
Obligation as set forth in Section VI.B above. To the extent any funds accrue to
the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of Interactive Brokers’ Disgorgement
Obligation, such funds shall be transferred to the Monitor for disbursement in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Order.

Nothing herein shall be construed in any way to limit or abridge the rights of any
customers of Park that exist under state or common law.

Cooperation, In General: Interactive Brokers shall cooperate fully and
expeditiously with the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of
Enforcement (“Division’’), in this action, and in any current or future Commission
investigation or action related thereto (“Commission Related Matters’).
Interactive Brokers shall also cooperate in any investigation, civil litigation, or
administrative matter related to, or arising from, the subject matter of this action
(“Subject Related Matters’). Interactive Brokers’ cooperation shall continue for a
period of five years from the date of the entry of this Order, or until any
Commission Related Matters or Subject Related Matters are concluded,
whichever is longest.

 

Independent Consultant: In the course of the Division’s investigation, Interactive
Brokers enlisted the services of an independent consultant (“Outside Consultant
#1”), to review and evaluate Interactive Brokers’ AML program and the
supervisory issues raised herein and to make recommendations for improvement
with respect to the matters assessed (“Outside Consultant #1’s
Recommendations’). Interactive Brokers recently retained a separate consultant

 

16
(“Outside Consultant #2’’) to assess Interactive Brokers’ implementation of
Outside Consultant #1’s Recommendations, all 107 of which Interactive Brokers
has adopted. Interactive Brokers shall continue to retain Outside Consultant #2 at
its own expense for the purposes of generating a report, as outlined below, and
shall facilitate Outside Consultant #2’s efforts by making available to Outside
Consultant #2 all relevant Interactive Brokers records and personnel, whether
located in the United States or any other location.

a.

On a quarterly basis, Outside Consultant #2 shall submit to the Division a
report reflecting Interactive Brokers’ status as to implementing each of
Outside Consultant #1’s recommendations, as well as making related
recommendations, where necessary, for improvements in Interactive Brokers’
internal controls, policies, procedures (written and otherwise), systems, and
training related to achieving compliance with Regulations 42.2 and 166.3.
Any costs associated with the submission of quarterly reports shall be borne
by Interactive Brokers.

Upon completion of its review, and by no later than 365 days from the date of
the entry of this Order, Outside Consultant #2 shall submit a written report to
Interactive Brokers and the Division (the “Confidential Report’) assessing
Interactive Brokers’ compliance with and implementation of Outside
Consultant #1’s Recommendations, including any additional
recommendations. The Confidential Report shall include a description of the
review performed and the conclusions reached.

Interactive Brokers shall fully implement all of Outside Consultant #1’s
Recommendations and any additional recommendations made by Outside
Consultant #2 within 120 days after receiving the Confidential Report. If
implementation cannot be accomplished within 120 days following receipt of
the Confidential Report, Interactive Brokers must present a specific timetable
and plan to the Division for its acceptance.

Within 120 days after receiving the Confidential Report, or any longer time
period approved in writing by the Division, Interactive Brokers shall provide
Outside Consultant #2 and the Division with a written Implementation Report,
certified by an officer of Interactive Brokers, attesting to, containing
documentation of, and setting forth the details of Interactive Brokers’
implementation of all of Outside Consultant #1’s Recommendations and any
additional recommendations made by Outside Consultant #2. The
certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of
compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient
to demonstrate compliance. The Division may make reasonable requests for
further evidence of compliance, and Interactive Brokers agrees to provide
such evidence.

17
Interactive Brokers shall not terminate its relationship with Outside
Consultant #2 before the completion of the requirements set forth in this Order
without the Division’s prior written approval.

Interactive Brokers shall cooperate with Outside Consultant #2 and Outside
Consultant #2 shall have the authority to take such reasonable steps, in its
view, as may be necessary to be fully informed about the operations of
Interactive Brokers within the scope of this review, including full access to all
information, files, books, records, and personnel Outside Consultant #2 deems
necessary to perform its duties. Interactive Brokers shall require Outside
Consultant #2 to report to the Division on its activities as the Division may
request and shall place no restrictions on Outside Consultant #2’s
communications with the Division. Further, upon request, Interactive Brokers
shall make available to the Division any and all communications between
Outside Consultant #2 and Interactive Brokers and documents reviewed by
Outside Consultant #2 in connection with this review.

The Commission’s acceptance of Interactive Brokers’ Offer and entry of this
Order shall not be construed as the Commission’s approval of any policy or
practice reviewed by Outside Consultant #1 or Outside Consultant #2 and/or
implemented based on the recommendation of Outside Consultant #1 or
Outside Consultant #2.

Interactive Brokers shall not be in and shall not have an attorney-client
relationship with Outside Consultant #2 and shall not seek to invoke the
attorney-client privilege or other doctrine or privilege to prevent Outside
Consultant #2 from transmitting any information, reports, or documents to the
Division. Any person engaged to assist Outside Consultant #2 in the
performance of its duties pursuant to this Order shall not, without prior written
consent from the Division, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-
client, auditing, or other professional relationship with Interactive Brokers or
any of Interactive Brokers’ present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents for the period of Outside Consultant #2’s engagement
and for a period of two years after the engagement; provided, however, that
nothing herein shall prevent Outside Consultant #2 from serving in a
consulting role pursuant to an agreement with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA).

Upon written request showing good cause, Division staff may extend any of
the procedural dates set forth above except the period of engagement of the
Outside Consultants.

Partial Satisfaction: Interactive Brokers understands and agrees that any

 

acceptance by the Commission of any partial payment of Interactive Brokers’
CMP Obligation or Disgorgement Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of its
obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

18
6. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Interactive Brokers satisfies in full
its Disgorgement Obligation and CMP Obligation as set forth in this Order,
Interactive Brokers shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified
mail of any change to its telephone number and mailing address within ten
calendar days of the change.

 

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Fit We gto

Robert N. Sidman
Deputy Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

 

Dated: August 10, 2020

19
