2020-BCFP-0021 Document’ Filed 11/12/2020 Page 1 of 36

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP- 0021

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

AFNI, INC.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
furnishing activities of Afni, Inc. (Respondent, as defined below) and has
identified the following law violations: (1) Respondent furnished inaccurate
information about consumers’ credit to Consumer Reporting Agencies (CRAs) that
it knew or had reasonable cause to believe was inaccurate in violation of
§ 623(a)(1)(A) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-
2(a)(1)(A); (2) Respondent, in furnishing on certain consumer accounts, failed to
provide to CRAs the date a delinquency commenced, in violation of § 623(a)(5) of
the FCRA,15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(5); (3) Respondent failed to conduct reasonable
investigations of consumer disputes or to do so in a timely fashion, in violation of

$$ 623(b)(1), 623(a)(8)(E)(i), 623(a)(8XE)(iii) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681s-
2(b)(1), 168 1s-2(a)(8)(E)(i), 168 1s-2(a)(8 (KE) (iii), and §§ 1022.43(e)(1) and
1022.43(e)(3) of Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1022.43(e)(1), 1022.43(e)(1);
(4) Respondent failed to make determinations or provide the required notices to
consumers that their disputes were frivolous or irrelevant and did not require
investigation, in violation of § 623(a)(8)(F) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-
2(a)(8)(f)(ii), (itt), and § 1022.43(f)(2) of Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. § 1022.43(f)(2),
(3); (5) Respondent failed to establish, implement, review or update reasonable
policies and procedures regarding its furnishing of consumer information to CRAs
in violation of 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42; and (6) Respondent, as a covered person
engaging in violations of a Federal consumer financial law, violated the Consumer
Financial Protection Act (CFP A), § 1036(a)(1)(A) ofthe CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §
5536(a)(1)(A). Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565,
the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).
I.
Jurisdiction

1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the

CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563 and 5565 and § 621 of FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §

1681s(b)(1)(H).
AAA Perr AN ms 2 mek of Pro ad a FA IRA Ria Sos
SOP ARE ANA Pinstiicnant ‘+t Rita Tt fa Biers Darra A eyh Ee
vt ade PSR Le er Fd by goat Salt aber ay : Riess yt i or en oe rs ey ¥ weit ae y bE +

She ad BP et NE 2 : a = : : Nel SORE a Bo Gta sf RSP oe

G a

HII.
Stipulation
Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated November 2, 2020 (Stipulation), which is
incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation,
Respondent has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the
Bureau under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565,
without admitting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of
law, except that Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the
Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.
IV.
Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
a. “Board” means Respondent’s duly-elected and acting Board of Directors.
b. “Compliance Committee” means Respondent’s compliance committee,
which reports to Respondents’ Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer.

c. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.
AAA A TPP ANA =~
AAA RMS AAs ris
Ir Ee PPL | Lal

x wns wt SEN ENS -
> sperma 7 Rife T4 fa BPamoy Pe
we A A APiGeSP gL F PORN of be bed “

nt hn Al te

a
Sad

a3
oe
cp

Se.
ad
Y
Cd
os

d. “Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the Midwest
Region for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, or his or her delegate.

e. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on substantially
the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent Order.

f. “Respondent” means Afni, Inc., and its successors and assigns.

V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Respondent is an Illinois corporation with its principal place of business in

Bloomington, IL. Respondent collects debts on behalf of

telecommunications companies and furnishes information about consumers

to CRAs.

Respondent furnishes consumer-account information to CRAs. The

consumer-account information Respondent has collected and provided is

used or expected to be used in connection with a decision regarding the
offering or provision of a consumer-financial product or service and

furnishing this information is a service offered or provided for use by
AAA Peer AAA my wn mh errr od a TAO ee PV om oor
PAO ALR AAs Pinciierenmt 7 Cite Tt Pa OPIN Wepre A syt 3
vt ade PS Se beret Pe goat Salt aber ay : RiGee y sobs dy Rs i Stel. eh

She ad BP et NE o fine E o boat Nel SORE a PO CANALS at LE ct

consumers primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. This
activity is a consumer-financial product or service under the CFPA. 12
U.S.C. § 5481(5), (15)(A)(ix).

Respondent regularly collects defaulted consumer debt related to a consumer
financial product or service, including telecommunications debt that was
owed to companies that regularly extend credit by providing
telecommunications service to consumers without requiring immediate
payment or by providing equipment installment plans. This activity is a
consumer financial product or service under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §
5481(5), (15)(A)(x).

Respondent is a “covered person” under the CFPA because it engages in
offering or providing a consumer-financial product or service, 12 U.S.C. §
5481(5), (6), 15(A)(ix).

Respondent regularly furnishes information relating to consumers to CRAs
for inclusion in consumer reports. Therefore, it is a “furnisher” under
Regulation V. 12 C.F.R. § 1022.41(c).

Respondent is a “person” under the FCRA. 15 U.S.C. § 168 1a(b).
10.

11.

12.

13.

ARAA ROE ARR my ak mod A aE AIA mo
SOO REE BAG? 4 Macument 7 Bilee Tid 2feoeg Dare
he LP I NE Met E of SPR ae PRENSA oF RF da eae ros

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of § 623(a)(1)(A) of the FCRA

Respondent furnishes information about debt-collection accounts to CRAs,
including the nationwide CRAs: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion (the
NCRAs).

Respondent does not, on any correspondence used generally with

consumers, clearly and conspicuously specify an address to which

consumers can send notice that information Respondent furnished to a CRA

is inaccurate.

Respondent uses an automated system, which employs certain furnishing

logic, to report information to the NCRAs.

In some instances, from at least March 2016 through July 2017,

Respondent’s furnishing logic incorrectly translated its account files into the

format used to report consumer information to the NCRAs, which resulted in

Respondent furnishing at least the following inaccurate information:

a. Respondent furnished actual payment amounts as zero dollars on
approximately 165,600 accounts, even though those consumers had made
payments.

b. Respondent also furnished current balances and amounts past due in
amounts other than zero dollars on approximately 72,000 accounts, even

though those consumers’ accounts were settled in full.
14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

ARAN Pere AA my 2 mh errr od a TAO ee PN ea Oo oor
INO RE BAN Maciimant 4 iad 44/4 Dano Dears FP yt 3
vt ade PS Se beret Pe goat Salt aber ay : RiGee y sobs dy Rs i Stel. Ff ab

ae A RI Ne of E ! - PRP oF RS Gea co PO GANAS FOOSE

Respondent knew or had reasonable cause to believe that this information
was inaccurate because its own records reflected the correct account
information.

Under section 623(a)(1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(1), unless a
person clearly and conspicuously specifies to a consumer an address to
which the consumer can send notice that information the person furnished to
a CRA is inaccurate, a person shall not furnish any information relating to a
consumer to any CRA if the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe
that the information is inaccurate.

Respondent furnished consumer information to CRAs that it knew or had
reasonable cause to believe was inaccurate, because the information it
furnished was different than the information in Respondent’s files.
Respondent did not clearly and conspicuously specify to consumers an
address for receipt of notices that furnished information was inaccurate,
pursuant to section 623(a)(1)(C) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(1)(C).
Thus, Respondent violated section 623(a)(1)(A) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §

1681s-2(a)(1)(A).

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of § 623(a)(5) of the FCRA

19.

On many accounts that it furnished, from at least March 2016 through July

2018, Respondent failed to report an appropriate date of first delinquency,
20.

21.

22.

AAPA PA PSP RS AA ~ ; Coa wena Lot TRON MTN ~ ~ ee
SOO ROE RNA 4 Macimeant 4 Siac 14/4 O/Oron Dana 8 af 3
ah A PT Oe OU ent Bat §, APiPee byl f PRENSA oF be ba oe re SS LP Mab

1.e., the month and year of the commencement of the delinquency on the
account that immediately preceded the delinquent account being placed for
collection.

Respondent’s creditor clients did not furnish accounts to CRAs before
sending accounts into collection and therefore did not previously furnish
dates of first delinquency for those accounts.

When creditors would send accounts to Respondent for collection, the
accounts often did not specify a date of first delinquency. Instead of
establishing and following reasonable procedures to obtain dates of first
delinquency from its creditor clients, Respondent would instead select from
dates that the creditors did provide, including the date on which
telecommunications service was disconnected, or when the debt was charged
off, and Respondent would furnish such dates as the date of first
delinquency.

The disconnect date is not an accurate date of first delinquency because
telecommunications services are often not disconnected until after a
consumer has been delinquent for some time. Likewise, the date on which a
debt is charged off is not an accurate date of first delinquency because debts
are often not charged off until a consumer has been delinquent for some

time.
23.

24.

25.

Section 623(a)(5) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(5), requires that a
person who furnishes information to a CRA regarding a “delinquent account
being placed for collection” must notify the CRA of the date the delinquency
commenced, subject to the rules set forth in 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(5)(B).
For many accounts on which it furnished, Respondent failed to notify the
CRA to which it furnished information of a date of first delinquency that
complied with 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(5).

Therefore, Respondent violated § 623(a)(5) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §

1681s-2(a)(5).

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of § 623(b)(1) of the FCRA

26.

27.

28.

Consumers can dispute information furnished to a CRA either with a CRA
(indirect dispute) or directly with a furnisher (direct dispute).

Respondent receives indirect disputes through the Online Solution for
Complete and Accurate Reporting (E-OSCAR). E-OSCAR is a web-based
system developed by the NCRAs to help process indirect disputes.

When a consumer submits an indirect dispute about a debt furnished by
Respondent to one of the NCRAs, it is routed to Respondent through E-
OSCAR. Any supporting documentation submitted by the consumer to the

NCRA with the dispute is also sent to Respondent through E-OSCAR. In
29.

30.

31.

32.

PP OR TR PO » _ 4 ow pets bo Aw Fat My POR
SOOO HD Prem AM Pree ey ceed of SWlaw tat OFOAGAY
eee d be PS i opr ete Ho of 2a CE a? Barty of Pr PEAY Sore bows oi eS
Sa tet BA AEN Pa PikaAs tebe é :

addition, the NCRAs assign a code to each dispute, reflecting the subject
matter of the dispute.

Upon receipt, Respondent generally has 30 days to conduct a reasonable
investigation of a dispute, as required by § 623(b)(1) of the FCRA, and to
submit a response through E-OSCAR that the disputed information should
be deleted, modified, or verified as being accurate as reported.

A reasonable investigation must be responsive to the specific allegations in
the consumer’s dispute; the more specific a dispute is, the more thorough the
investigation should be.

In some instances, from at least March 2016 through June 2017, when
Respondent received disputes with specific allegations that could not be
reasonably investigated with the limited information in Respondent’s files,
Respondent’s employees did not reach out to the original creditor for the
information required to reasonably investigate the dispute. Respondent’s
employees used only the inadequate information in Respondent’s files to do
their investigations of such disputes.

Respondent also uses an automated program to handle certain indirect
disputes without human involvement. In investigating indirect disputes, the

automated program only considered information in Respondent’s own
33.

34.

35.

36.

SAM eer AM a Pree ey ceed of Cilaad 44/4 OFGASGH Bie fot as "34
ee eh ba eee Ome beta de det od Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas sobs beg wt le Pe eth TES FP OG EE y
Sao Te PN F BASE EAGER PORN! fo br bara : she Fb kd

account database, did not access any of its creditor-clients’ files, and did not
refer disputes to clients for further investigation.

In some instances, the automated software handled indirect disputes in an
unreasonable manner because certain specific consumer disputes handled by
the automated software that should have been referred to the client for
investigation to obtain further information were not.

Under § 623(b)(1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(b)(1), when a
furnisher of information to a CRA receives a notice of dispute regarding the
completeness or accuracy of the reported information from a CRA in
accordance with the provisions of § 611(a)(2) of the FCRA, the furnisher is
required to conduct a reasonable investigation and review all relevant
information provided by the CRA.

In some instances, Respondent has not conducted a reasonable investigation
when it has received a notice of dispute from a CRA under the provisions of
§ 611(a)(2) of the FCRA.

Therefore, Respondent has violated § 623(b)(1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §

1681s-2(b)(1).
prey bo 4 ob Fat my Pe yey ey ry - AS 6 ae
Pilad t1TfPtefeaena Rane PT? of 38
PRES fo bP para oA bal Ld

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of § 623(a)(8)(E)(i) of the FCRA
and § 1022.43(e)(1) of Regulation V

37.

38.

39.

From at least January 2016 through June 2017, Respondent failed to conduct
reasonable investigations of direct disputes.

Respondent systematically treated direct disputes under FCRA and disputes
under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCP A) as indistinguishable.
Under the FDCPA, if a consumer sends a written dispute within a specified
time period, the debt collector is required to send “validation,” which is
typically a bill copy or other proof of the debt. Respondent conflated FCRA
and FDCPA dispute requirements and treated many direct disputes as if they
were merely seeking FDCPA validation. As a result, when Respondent
lacked the information to reasonably investigate a direct dispute under
FCRA, Respondent would often not forward the dispute on to the client for
investigation but would instead respond with bill copies or by simply
checking Respondent’s own records, an approach that often failed to answer
the issue raised by the consumer.

In addition, for the period between January and June 2017, Respondent was
not able to access one of its creditor-client’s system files, and did not

forward disputes on to that creditor-client for further investigation.
40.

4].

42.

43.

44.

AA POAT Aad PN wud Pe oo Ra SE Pe ee OO
POCO. EOD 4 Pocument 7 Pilad t1TfPtefeaena Pane 73
Bad ae MRP De nt dt nF Bal KLEE BRg POPS Of be baal ee STAN AS Ow

From at least April 2016 through June 2017, with respect to direct disputes
relating to paid accounts, Respondent ignored all such disputes after the first
two submitted by a consumer.

From March 2016 through May 2018, in certain instances, Respondent
would cause the tradelines to be deleted from consumers’ credit reports
instead of investigating the disputes.

Section 623(a)(8)(E)(1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(8)(E)G), and §
1022.43(e)(1) of Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. § 1022.43(e)(1), require
Respondent, upon receipt of a direct dispute from a consumer, to conduct a
reasonable investigation with respect to the disputed information.

In some instances, Respondent has not conducted a reasonable investigation
when it has received a direct dispute from a consumer.

Therefore, Respondent has violated § 623(a)(8)(E)(1) of the FCRA, 15
U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(8)(E)() and § 1022.43(e)(1) of Regulation V, 12 C.F.R.

§ 1022.43(e)(1).
APA RPP A ea PA . wud A pee bo AR Fa SD ETE ATE Roya ewe, FA
SOOO ee Ly od Mie issycinmt 4 Berle TPA Paya Bane 74
SNP eI Pe et At F RAPA E Ko4 Pes Ppoiagig re : ANS

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of § 623(a)(8)(E)(iii) of the FCRA,
and § 1022.43(e)(3) of Regulation V

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

In addition to a failure to reasonably investigate direct disputes, from at least
January 2016 through August 2018, Respondent failed to timely respond to
direct disputes.

In some instances, Respondent failed to respond to direct disputes within 30
days, if at all.

This was caused by:

a. Respondent’s treating direct disputes under FCRA the same as disputes

under the FDCPA, which do not have a time limit for resolution;
b. significant backlogs in its dispute queues;

c. accounts being recalled by clients in response to disputes, after which
Respondent would not respond to those consumers’ disputes.

Where Respondent determined that a direct dispute was “frivolous” or

“irrelevant” and therefore would not be investigated, from at least April

2016 through June 2017, Respondent failed to send required notices to the

consumer within five days of such determination.

Section 623(a)(8)(E)(i1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(8)(E)(in),

and § 1022.43(e)(3)of Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. § 1022.43(e)(3), require
AAA RRR AMAA Py, nt A me AR ER IAA Soe AR REN
POOL ROE DLA 4 Mie issycinmt 4 Cian 44/4 BPA Daan TA af 24
Sai tee ot JNf tf RAP ASE EAD ERG PoEURSAS fo bP base : oe ba A

furnishers to respond to direct disputes, generally, within 30 days of
receiving notice of the dispute.

50. In some instances, Respondent has not responded to consumers’ direct
disputes within the required time period.

51. Therefore, Respondent violated § 623(a)(8)(E)(in) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §

168 1s-2(a)(8)(E)(Gil), and Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. § 1022.43(e)(3).
Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of § 1022.42 of Regulation V

52. Respondent did not establish or implement reasonable policies and
procedures regarding its furnishing of consumer information to CRAs, as
appropriate to the size, nature, and complexity of its furnishing activities.

53. Examples of the failures of its policies and procedures include:

a. Respondent’s indirect dispute policy did not instruct employees to access
clients’ systems or make requests to clients to obtain information or
source documentation, as needed, before attempting to resolve an indirect

dispute.

b. Respondent had no written policies accurately explaining how its

automated E-OSCAR program responds to indirect disputes.
54.

55.

AA POAT Aad PN wud Pe oo Ra SE PS A ED
POCO. EOD 4 Pocument 7 BPileacd PTT feoea Rane Th of 3B
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE te AEN Ed POPS Of be baal ee : She FR kab rt

c. Respondent did not distinguish between direct disputes under FCRA and
disputes under FDCPA, treating both as the same, and failing to adhere to

the timing and notification requirements for FCRA disputes.

d. No policy explained how to conduct a reasonable investigation of a

FCRA dispute.

e. Respondent’s written direct dispute policy did not include procedures on

how to determine whether a dispute was frivolous or irrelevant and did

not require employees to send notices of such determination.

Respondent’s policies and procedures were also not reviewed or updated as
necessary for continued effectiveness. For example, prior to 2017,
Respondent had not modified its automated furnishing code for at least four
years. And despite Respondent’s knowledge that employees were not
complying with its dispute policies and with FCRA dispute requirements
more generally, Respondent failed to review or update its dispute policies

and procedures.

Part E of Regulation V, requires in 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42 that a furnisher of

consumer information:

a. establish and implement reasonable written policies and procedures

regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information relating to
56.

57.

58.

59.

AMAA Terr ARMAS PV, ut ow Pre Kok Pat Ee Pio OP REO
SOOO SEB ANA Mie issycinmt 4 Cian 44/4 BPA Dineen F°F at RE
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa PORN! fo br bara : ghee FP Geb wr

consumers that it furnishes to a consumer reporting agency, which must
be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the

furnisher’s activities;

b. consider and incorporate the appropriate guidelines set forth in Appendix

E of 12 C.F.R. Part 1022 in developing such policies and procedures; and

c. review such policies and procedures periodically and update them as

necessary to ensure their continued effectiveness.

Respondent did not establish or implement reasonable policies and

procedures regarding its furnishing of consumer information to CRAs or

handling of consumer disputes.

Respondent did not consider or incorporate, as appropriate, the guidelines
set forth in Appendix E of Regulation V in developing its policies and
procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information it

furnishes to consumer reporting agencies.

Respondent also failed to review or update its policies and procedures as

necessary for continued effectiveness.

Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42.
peng b 4 aw PAO EAT ry - AD Qa
Pilad 44/4 OFO AN Maye TR AF RE
PoE! bo bP paras POSARNe OER whe

CONDUCT PROVISIONS
VI.

Required Conduct

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 ofthe CFPA, that:

60.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate §§ 623(a)(1)(A), 623(a)(5), 623(b)(1),
623(a)(8)(E)(i), 623(a)(8 )(E)(itl), 623(a)(8)(F); of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §§
168 1s-2(a)(1)(A), 1681s-2(a)(5) 1681s-2(b)(1), 168 1s-2(a)(8)(E)(1), 168 1s-
2(a)(8)(E)(il) 168 1s-2(a)(8 )(A (ii), (ait), and §§ 1022.42 and 1022.43(f)(2)
and of Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1022.42 and 1022.43(f)(2), and must take

the following affirmative actions:

a. On at least a monthly basis, review samples of account information to
assess the accuracy and integrity of information Respondent furnishes,
including to (1) assess the accuracy and integrity of underlying account
information provided by creditors; and (11) assess the process by which
Respondent converts files into industry standard formats for furnishing to

consumer reporting agencies.
ARAN SAP ANAS Py, nt A me AR ER IAA Soe AN REN
SOOO SEB ANA Mie issycinmt 4 Cian 44/4 BPA Bian FQ af BA
Sa tet RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PoEURSAS fo bP base : LN GP a 8

b. On at least a monthly basis, review samples of consumer disputes and
responses to assess whether Respondent’s handling of consumer disputes

complies with FCRA, Regulation V, and its own policies and procedures;

c. On at least an annual basis, or more frequently as needed to promptly
address deficiencies found in assessments described in Paragraphs 61 (a)-
(b) or other compliance deficiencies known to Respondent, review and
update its policies and procedures and implement any updates to ensure
compliance with the FCRA and Regulation V and to ensure continued

effectiveness of such policies and procedures; and

d. Provide sufficient staffing, facilities, systems, and information necessary
to timely and accurately respond to disputes in accordance with the
FCRA and Regulation V.

VIL.

Independent Consultant’s Report and Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

61.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must secure and retain one
or more independent consultants, with specialized experience in FCRA and
Regulation V compliance and acceptable to the Regional Director, to

conduct an independent review of Respondent’s activities, policies, and
AMAA RPM AMAA PN, nk A ere ka a Ee io IN OS
SOOO SEB ANA Mie issycinmt 4 waa TAPE Deere ay ent <i
Ba Sf tn ST et BASLE EER PER Od PORN! fo br bara Y CALS oo LS

procedures relating to furnishing and credit reporting. The review must
include an assessment of whether Respondent’s current policies, practices,
and procedures regarding furnishing of consumer information to CRAs
comply with the FCRA and Regulation V. The purposes of the review must

be, at the very least, to determine:

a. whether Respondent has developed, maintained, and implemented
policies and procedures to ensure compliance with Section VI of this

Order;

b. whether Respondent has developed, maintained, and implemented
policies and procedures to ensure Board-level oversight of and

commitment to compliance with the FCRA;

c. whether Respondent has developed, maintained, and implemented
policies and procedures, including employee training and other
applicable employee guidance, to address the acts and practices that are

the subject of this Order; and

d. whether Respondent has developed, maintained, and implemented
appropriate monitoring, testing, and other compliance oversight and
internal controls to address the acts and practices that are the subject of

this Order.
62.

63.

64.

65.

AAA RRR AMAA Py, nt A me AR ER IAA Nae MA REN
POOL ROE DLA 4 Mie issycinmt 4 Cian 44/4 BPA Dineen Bot at Re
Sai tee ot Aer een RAP ASE EAD ERG PoP! fobs bas aa 3 ghe ab LY ow

Within 180 days of the Effective Date, the independent consultant(s) must
prepare a written report detailing the findings of the review (the Independent
Consultant Report), and provide the Independent Consultant Report to the

Compliance Committee.

Within 20 days of receiving the Independent Consultant Report, the

Compliance Committee must:

a. Develop a plan (Compliance Plan) to: (1) correct any deficiencies
identified, and (11) implement all recommendations or explain in writing

why a particular recommendation is not being implemented; and

b. Submit the Independent Consultant Report and the Compliance Plan to

the Regional Director.

The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of

non-objection to the Compliance Plan or to direct Respondent to revise it. If
the Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan, the
Compliance Committee must make the requested revisions and resubmit the

Compliance Plan to the Regional Director within 20 days.

After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a

determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
AP PRE RO es ~ . 4g a sk eat a
SOO Dem AMO Pier ascirt 4 Cian 44 /f 8f/Eenen
ee eh ba eee Ome beta de det od BMW CE a Barty 7 Pe PLEAS Poe b we et ree y
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE RAE EIRP ER Of preset ip tg “i

implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
VII.

Role of the Board

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

66.

67.

68.

The Board must review all submissions (including plans, reports, programs,

policies, and procedures) required by this Consent Order prior to submission

to the Bureau.

Although this Consent Order requires Respondent to submit certain
documents for the review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the
Board will have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound
management of Respondent and for ensuring that Respondent complies with
the laws that the Bureau enforces, including Federal consumer financial laws

and this Consent Order.

In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure

adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondent, the Board must:

a. Authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondent to fully comply

with the Consent Order;
prey bo 4a Fa Se PDT PS ~. I Se
Fila PT eieoeg Mage Ba af BG
PORN! fo br bara SOCAN Get Gi

b. Require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of

compliance obligations; and

c. Require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any material
non-compliance with any failure to comply with Board directives related

to this Section.

MONETARY PROVISIONS

IX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

69. Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a

civil money penalty of $500,000 to the Bureau.

70. Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in

compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

71. Thecivil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,

12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
72.

73.

AA POAT Aad PN wud Pe oo Ra SE PS ewee TRA wT OD
POCO. EOD 4 Pocument 7 Pilad t1TfPtefeaena Pane 2d of 3G
Ba Sf tn ST et RPA TAS Pd POPPA Ob be bar ee 5 Rage OP

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how

the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax

benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this

Consent Order.

To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of

a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
AAA RRR AMAA Py, nt A me AR ER IAA Sa ME EN
POOL ROE DLA 4 Mie issycinmt 4 Cian 44 /f 8f/Eenen Dane OR Af 2
Sai tee ot Aer een RAP ASE EAD ERG PoP! fobs bas aa : whe aoe Ll ow

amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

X.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

74.

75.

70.

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and

payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be

returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount

arising out of this Consent Order.
TT,

AMAA RPM AMAA PN, nt A ers Ao a Ee oe IO EOS
SOOO ee Ly od Mees ayyearyt ; Bilas bP Poe rey an Da ey en fb ar [<i
Sai tee ot JNf tf BASLE EER PER Od PoEURSAS fo bP base : wo Be A rE

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional

Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
XI.

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

78.

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the

development.
79.

80.

81.

AAAA SPR ARS PA ee, unk Prey aad a ER Poe ee OP LE
POCO. EOD 4 Pocument 7 BPileacd PTT feoea Mana OY of 36
on at te PE RPA TAS Pd POPPA Ob be bar ee 5 ghee ae Gab wr

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal
addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to communicate

with Respondent;

b. identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses;

and

c. describe the activities of each such business, including the products and

services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 79 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

To account for the time for hiring the Independent Consultant, within 180
days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective Date,
Respondent must submit to the Regional Director an accurate written
compliance progress report (Compliance Report) that has been approved by

the Board, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:
ARON RAO AMA ~ a ots kk ae EA ~~ ~e
SOO LB eE RANA Mie issycinmt 4 Cian 44/4 BPA Mieaeves OR
QAP EIS PE WA o BPA EAE od PPPS PP iaig aA 3

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent

Order;

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has

complied with the Compliance Plan; and

c. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section
XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

82.

83.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,

sworn under penalty of perjury.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well
as to any managers, employees, Service Providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the

Consent Order.
84.

85.

86.

AA POAT Aad PN wud Pe oo Ra SE Peewee TET TOD
POCO. EOD 4 Pocument 7 Pilad t1TfPtefeaena Pane 2O of 3G
Ba Sf tn ST et te AEN Ed POPPA Ob be bar ee : Leg he cer at PE

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject

matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent

Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 83-84 and a copy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under

Paragraph 85.
PP OR TR PO » _ 4 ow pets bo Aw Fat My POR
SOOO HD Prem AM Pree ey ceed of SWlaw tat OFOAGAY
eee d be PS i opr ete Ho of 2a CE a? Barty of Pr PEAY Sore bows oi eS
Sa tet BA AEN Pa PikaAs tebe é :

XII.
Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

87. Respondent must create and retain the following business records:

a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with
each provision of this Consent Order, including documentation of all
Board actions taken to comply with this Consent Order and all

submissions to the Bureau; and

b. all consumer complaints relating to credit reporting (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses to

those complaints or requests.

88. Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 87 available
to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.
XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

89. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents

relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “Jn re Afni,
2020-BCFP-0021 Document1 Filed 11/12/2020 Page 31 of 36

Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP- 0021,” and send them by overnight courier or
first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by email to

Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Regional Director

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Midwest Region
230 South Dearborn St., Suite 1590

Chicago, IL 60604

XV.

Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

90.

Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those

requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
91.

92.

93.

AAAA SPR ARS PV, aN LS
POOL ROE DLA 4 Pace ; fa PPT eS SaEN 3° at RE
hn ad tan PR A EE Lat tate oF BaP AS SPEER Pkg POPPA Ob be bar ee SASS Me wan We re

of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those

requirements.

For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these

communications.

Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.

Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory

process.
APA SAP AAS
OOO RCE BLA 4
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

rN tA prs b 4 aw PAO EAT ry ~ De ae
Pinciaaent 4 Beha PDEA PY Rane SOQ af 2G
BA AEN Pa PORN! fo br bara » OSA MS ep ade Gb Pe

XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

94.

95.

Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting

requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.

The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Regional
Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

96.

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 97. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
97.

98.

99.

AAA FAR OA mA ~~ . oA pay » AA Dae Ee a an ys
SOA Re Pe APS a Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaad 44/4 OFGASGH Biase, BA ad Be
eb ek eae PS le bead re be og Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas S ope bore wt des ee at a SOA FY Se
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa PORN! fo br bara y CALS POP et we

other person or governmental agency from taking any action against

Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the

Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract

binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except

to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
100.

101.

102.

103.

ARAN RAI AMAA PA ee enh ot At Pa Pe mh OE RES
POCO. EOD 4 Pocument 7 BPileacd PTT feoea Pane SS of 3G
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE BASE EAGER PoE! bo bP paras Y CARS Put Lh re

suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated

agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based

on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all

applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under §1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not

contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent

Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
 

2020-BCFP-0021 Document1 Filed 11/12/2020 Page 36 of 36

accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written

communications, discussions, or understandings.

104. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to

violate any law, rule, or regulation.
IT IS SO ORDERED, this I day of November, 2020.

Othe sH, fearinp

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

36
