Release Number 8326-20

CFTC Orders Vitol Inc. to Pay $95.7 Million for Corruption-Based Fraud and Attempted
Manipulation

First CFTC Enforcement Action Involving Foreign Corruption

December 03, 2020

Washington, D.C. — The Commodity Futures Trading Commission today issued an order filing and settling charges
against Vitol Inc., an energy and commodities trading firm in Houston, Texas, for manipulative and deceptive conduct.
The conduct, which spanned from 2005 to early 2020, involved foreign corruption and physical and derivatives trading in
the U.S. and global oil markets, including attempted manipulation of two S&P Global Platts physical oil benchmarks. The
order requires Vitol to pay more than $95 million in civil monetary penalties and disgorgement.

The CFTC’s order finds that Vitol’s fraudulent and manipulative conduct—including conduct relating to foreign corruption
—defrauded its counterparties, harmed other market participants, and undermined the integrity of the U.S. and global
physical and derivatives oil markets. This case is brought in coordination with the Division of Enforcement’s Corruption
Task Force and is the first action brought by the CFTC involving foreign corruption.

“This historic enforcement action demonstrates that the CFTC will actively pursue fraud tied to foreign corruption and
manipulation that impacts the U.S. derivatives and related physical markets,” said Chairman Heath P. Tarbert. “I want to
thank Neel Chopra in particular for his leadership in helping the Commission bring this important action.”

Related Criminal Action

In a parallel matter, the Department of Justice’s Fraud Section and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern
District of New York today announced entry of a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with Vitol, deferring criminal
prosecution on charges of conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Under the terms of the DPA, Vitol
agreed, among other things, to pay a criminal fine. The CFTC order will recognize and offset a portion of any criminal
penalty made to the DO}.

Case Background

The order finds that Vitol committed fraud by making corrupt payments (e.g., bribes and kickbacks) to employees and
agents of certain state-owned entities (SOEs) in Brazil, Ecuador, and Mexico to obtain preferential treatment and access
to trades with the SOEs to the detriment of the SOEs and other market participants. Vitol concealed its fraud by funneling
the corrupt payments through offshore bank accounts or to shell entities, and at times, issuing deceptive invoices for
purported “market intelligence” or “sell support.” Vitol engaged in this conduct to secure unlawful competitive
advantages in trading physical oil products and derivatives.

The order further finds that Vitol committed fraud by making corrupt payments to employees and agents of the Brazilian
SOE in exchange for confidential information, including confidential material involving Vitol’s trading in physical oil and
derivatives. This material included at times the specific price information—referred to internally at Vitol as the “gold
number”—at which Vitol understood it would win a supposedly competitive bidding or tender process. The order also
finds that in August 2014 and July 2015, Vitol acted to manipulate two Platts fuel oil benchmarks for the purpose of
benefiting Vitol’s related physical and derivatives positions, including positions obtained while in possession of
confidential information. By attempting to manipulate such benchmarks, Vitol was also attempting to manipulate —and
would have distorted—numerous futures, swaps, and other derivatives and physical trades that price in reference to
those benchmarks. If successful, such conduct would have been to the detriment of market participants who held
opposing positions—including Vitol’s counterparties—or those who rely on the benchmarks as an untainted price
reference for U.S. physical or derivative trades.

The order recognizes Vitol’s cooperation with the Division of Enforcement’s investigation in the form of a reduced civil
monetary penalty.

The Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Ilana Waxman, Allison Passman, Gates S.
Hurand, Matthew Edelstein, Patrick Marquardt, Scott Williamson, Robert Howell, Neel Chopra, and former staff member
Elise Kent Bernanke. Staff member Doug Snodgrass, and former staff member Daniel J. Grimm, also assisted with this
matter.

OK OK OK OK KK

CFTC’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Advisory

The CFTC’s Division of Enforcement issued an advisory on March 6, 2019 [See CFTC Press Release No. 7884-19] on self-
reporting and cooperation for CEA violations involving foreign corrupt practices. As set forth in the advisory, where a
company or individual not registered or required to be registered with the CFTC voluntarily discloses violations of the CEA
involving foreign corrupt practices, provides full cooperation and appropriately remediates, the division will apply a
presumption that it will not recommend the CFTC impose a civil monetary penalty in resolution of an action, absent
aggravating circumstances.

Customers and other individuals can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity
trading laws, to the Division of Enforcement via a toll-free hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint
online. Tips can also be filed with the CFTC Whistleblower Office at www.whistleblower.gov.
-CFTC-
