 

April 21, 2015

CFTC Charges U.K. Resident Navinder Singh Sarao and His Company Nav Sarao Futures
Limited PLC with Price Manipulation and Spoofing

The CFTC Complaint Alleges that Defendants’ Manipulative Conduct
Contributed to the Market Conditions that Led to the May 6, 2010 Flash
Crash

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced the unsealing of a civil
enforcement action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against Nav Sarao Futures Limited PLC
(Sarao Futures) and Navinder Singh Sarao (Sarao) (collectively, Defendants). The CFTC Complaint charges the
Defendants with unlawfully manipulating, attempting to manipulate, and spoofing — all with regard to the E-mini S&P
500 near month futures contract (E-mini S&P). The Complaint had been filed under seal on April 17, 2015 and kept sealed
until today’s arrest of Sarao by British authorities acting at the request of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). After the
arrest, the DOJ unsealed its own criminal Complaint charging Sarao with substantively the same misconduct.

The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is an index of 500 stocks designed to be a leading indicator of U.S. equities. The E-mini
S&P 500 is a stock market index futures contract based on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and is one of the most
popular and liquid equity index futures contracts in the world. The contract is traded only at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange (CME).

According to the Complaint, for over five years and continuing as recently as at least April 6, 2015, Defendants have
engaged in a massive effort to manipulate the price of the E-mini S&P by utilizing a variety of exceptionally large,
aggressive, and persistent spoofing tactics. In particular, according to the Complaint, in or about June 2009, Defendants
modified a commonly used off-the-shelf trading platform to automatically simultaneously “layer” four to six exceptionally
large sell orders into the visible E-mini S&P central limit order book (the Layering Algorithm), with each sell order one
price level from the other. As the E-mini S&P futures price moved, the Layering Algorithm allegedly modified the price of
the sell orders to ensure that they remained at least three or four price levels from the best asking price; thus, remaining
visible to other traders, but staying safely away from the best asking price. Eventually, the vast majority of the Layering
Algorithm orders were canceled without resulting in any transactions. According to the Complaint, between April 2010
and April 2015, Defendants utilized the Layering Algorithm on over 400 trading days.

The Complaint alleges that Defendants often cycled the Layering Algorithm on and off several times during a typical
trading day to create large imbalances in the E-mini S&P visible order book to affect the prevailing E-mini S&P price.
Defendants then allegedly traded in a manner designed to profit from this temporary artificial volatility. According to the
Complaint, from April 2010 to present, Defendants have profited over $40 million, in total, from E-mini S&P trading.

As alleged in the Complaint, Defendants were exceptionally active in the E-mini S&P on May 6, 2010, commonly known
as the Flash Crash Day. On the afternoon of that day, the E-mini S&P market price suffered a sharp decline, followed
shortly thereafter by sharp declines in the prices of other major U.S. equities indices and individual equities. After a few
minutes, markets quickly rebounded to near previous price levels. According to the Complaint, Defendants utilized the
Layering Algorithm continuously, for over two hours, immediately prior to the precipitous drop in the E-mini S&P price,
applying close to $200 million worth of persistent downward pressure on the E-mini S&P price. According to the
Complaint, Defendants’ manipulative activities contributed to an extreme E-mini S&P order book imbalance that
contributed to market conditions that led to the Flash Crash.

The Complaint further alleges that Defendants engaged in a variety of other manual spoofing techniques whereby
Defendants allegedly would place and quickly cancel large orders with no intention of the orders resulting in
transactions. At times, according to the Complaint, this manual spoofing was used to exacerbate the price impact of the
Layering Algorithm.

CFTC Director of Enforcement Aitan Goelman commented: “Protecting the integrity and stability of the U.S. futures
markets is critical to ensuring a properly functioning financial system. Today’s actions make clear that the CFTC, working
with its partners on the criminal side, will find and prosecute manipulators of U.S. futures markets wherever they may
be.”

In its ongoing litigation, the CFTC is seeking permanent injunctive relief, disgorgement, civil monetary penalties, trading
suspensions or bans, and payment of costs and fees.

As noted above, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a related criminal action charging Sarao with manipulation,
attempted manipulation, spoofing, and wire fraud on February 11, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of Illinois. In conjunction with that action, Scotland Yard took Sarao into custody today, at his residence in London. Sarao
awaits extradition to the United States on these charges.
Given Defendants’ ongoing unlawful conduct and the potential for dissipation of Defendants’ ill-gotten gains, on April 17,
2015, U.S. District Judge Andrea R. Wood issued an Order freezing and preserving assets under Defendants’ control and
prohibiting them from destroying documents or denying CFTC staff access to their books and records. The Court has
scheduled a hearing for May 1, 2015, on the CFTC’s motion for a preliminary injunction.

The CFTC thanks and acknowledges the assistance of the CME, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority, Scotland Yard, and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this matter are Jeff Le Riche, Jo Mettenburg, Jenny Chapin,
Jessica Harris, Allison Sizemore, Carlin Metzger, Elizabeth Padgett, Mary Lutz, Jeri Cobb, Jordon Grimm, Rick Glaser, and
Charles Marvine.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: June 8, 2015
