UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

 

 

U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING __ )
COMMISSION, )
)
Plaintiff, ).
|
y. ) CIVIL ACTION NO. 1S - cv - 033A%
)
NAV SARAO FUTURES LIMITED PLC AND)
NAVINDER SINGH SARAO, )
)
Defendants. )
)
)
{2RORASED| ORDER
GRANTING PLAINTIFF'S EX PARTE MOTION FOR STATUTORY RESTRAINING -
ORDER AND OTHER RELIEF

This matter is before the on Plaintiff's Ex Parte Motion for a Statutory Restraining Order,
Preliminary Injunction, and Other Equitable Relief, and Incorporated Memorandum in Support
(“Motion”) in the above-captioned proceeding. Simultaneously with the Motion, Plaintiff U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”) filed a Complaint for
Injunctive Relief, Civil Monetary Penalties, and Other Equitable Relief against Defendants Nav
Sarao Futures Limited PLC and Navinder Singh Sarao (collectively, “Defendants”). In the
Motion, the Commission moves, pursuant to Section 6c(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act
(“the Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(a) (2012), for an ex parte statutory restraining order freezing assets
and prohibiting the’ destruction of books, records, or other documents; an accounting; and for an

- order requiring Defendants to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue.

 

The Court has considered the pleadings, declarations, exhibits, and memorandum filed in

support of the Commission’s Motion, and now, being fully advised, finds as follows:

Page | of 11
1. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and over the subject matter of this action
pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012).

2. Venue properly lies within this District pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. § 13a-1(e) (2012).

— 3. There is good cause to believe that Defendants have engaged, are engaging, and/or
may .continue to engage in acts and practices constituting violations of the Act Sections
4c(a)(5)(C), 6(c)(1) and (3),' and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(a)(5)(C), 9(1) & (3), and
13(a)(2) (2012), and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”) 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§

| 180.1 and 180.2 (2014), which, among other things, make it unlawful for any person to
manipulate, attempt to manipulate, use a manipulative device, or attempt to use a manipulative
device, or spoof the market of any commodity in interstate commerce or for future delivery on or
subject to the rules of any registered entity, including any contract market.
4. The Commission has presented evidence that, from at least April 2010 to January
2012; July 2012 to June 2014; and September 2014 to present (“Relevant Period”), Defendants
have manipulated, attempted to manipulate and/or spoofed the near month of the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange E-mini S&P futures contract (“B-mini S&P”). Similarly, the CFTC has
presented evidence that Defendants have profited over $40 million from E-mini S&P trading
during the Relevant Period.
5. Prior notice to Defendants of an asset freeze is likely to result in dissipation of
Defendants’ assets making it difficult for this Court ultimately to grant effective relief.
Similarly, given the ease of destroying books, records, and other documents, an order prohibiting

‘
\

the destruction of rele 7 ing the Commission immediate-access-to-inspeet_—_____—_

 

" Section 6(c)(1) and (3) of the Act became effective on August 15, 2011. Prior to that date, Defendants’ conduct is
alleged to have violated Section 6(c) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 15 (2008).

' Page 2 of 11
1

and copy those documents will increase the likelihood of a meaningful opportunity for the
Commission, and ultimately this Court, to determine the full scope of Defendants’ allegedly
unlawful scheme.

6. There is good cause to believe that immediate and irreparable damage to the
Court’s ability to grant effective final sanctions in the form of monetary or other redress will
occur from the sale, transfer, assignment, or other disposition by Defendants of assets or
documents unless Defendants are immediately restrained and enj oined by Order of the Court.

7. There is good cause for entry of an order freezing assets owned, controlled,
managed, or held by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of Defendants. |

8. There is good cause for entry of an order prohibiting Defendants, their agents,
servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and persons in active concert or participation with
Defendants, from destroying relevant books, records, and other documents and/or denying agents.
of the Commission immediate and complete access to Defendants’ books and records for
inspection and copying.

DEFINITIONS

9. F or purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:

a. The term “document” is synonymous in meaning and equal in scope to the
usage of the term in Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(a), and includes, but is not limited to, writings, drawings,
graphs, charts, photographs, audio ‘and video recordings, computer records, and other data
compilations from which information can be obtained and translated, if necessary, through
detection devices into a reasonably usable form. A draft or non-identical copy is a separate

document within the meaning of the term

Page 3 of 11
b. | The term “asset” means any legal or equitable interest in, right to, or claim
to any real or personal property, whether individually or jointly or directly or indirectly
controlled, and wherever located (including within or outside the United States), including but
not limited to: chattels, goods, instruments, equipment, fixtures, general intangibles, effects,
leaseholds, mail or other deliveries, inventory, checks, notes, accounts (including, but not limited
to, bank accounts and accounts at other financial institutions), credits, receivables, lines of credit,
contracts (including futures or option contracts), insurance policies, and all cash, wherever
located, regardless of when the asset is or was obtained.

Cc. “Defendants” shall mean and refer to not only Nav Sarao Futures Limited
PLC and Navider Singh Sarao, but also to their agents, servants, employees, assigns, attorneys,
and persons in active concert or participation with any of the Defendants, including any
successor thereof, and any d/b/a, successor, affiliate, subsidiary, or other entity owned,
controlled, managed, or held by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of any of the Defendants. For
purposes of this Order, “Defendants” shall include International Guarantee Corporation, an
Anguillan, British West Indies corporation.

RELIEF GRANTED

I. ASSETS
A. Order Against Transfer, Dissipation, and Disposal of Assets
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

10. Defendants and any other persons who receive actual notice of this Order, by

personal service or otherwise, are restrained and enjoined from directly or indirectly transferring,

 

selling, alienating, liquidating, encumbering, pledging, leasing, loaning, assigning, concealing,

dissipating, converting, withdrawing, or otherwise disposing of any of Defendants’ assets,

Page 4 of 11
‘ 5

wherever located, including assets held outside the United States, unless otherwise ordered by

. the Court.
B. Directives to Financial Institutions and Others
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

11. ‘Any financial or brokerage institution, business entity, or person that holds or has
held, controls or has controlled, or maintains or has maintained custody of any account or other
of Defendants’ assets at any time since April 17, 2010, shall:

a. Immediately upon receipt of a copy of this Order prohibit Defendants and
all other persons from withdrawing, removing, assigning, transferring, pledging, encumbering,
disbursing, dissipating, converting, selling, or otherwise disposing of any of Defendants’ assets, —
except as directed by further order of the Court;

b. Immediately upon receipt of a copy of this Order deny Defendants and all
other persons access to any safe deposit box that is: (a) owned, controlled, managed, or held by,
on behalf of, or for the benefit of Defendants, either individually or jointly, whether in the name,
alias, or fictitious “doing business as” name of; or (b) otherwise subject to access by Defendants,
‘except as directed by further order of the Court;

c.- Within five (5) business days of receiving a copy of this Order provide
counsel for the Commission a statement setting forth: (a) the identification number of each and
every account or other asset owned, controlled, managed, or held by, on behalf of, or for the

. benefit of Defendants, either individually or jointly; (b) the balance of each such account, or a
description of the nature and value of such asset as of the close of business on the day on which

_______ this Order is served, and, if the account or other asset_has been closed or removed, the date
closed or removed, ghe total funds removed in order to close the account, and the name of the

person or entity to whom such account or other asset was remitted; and (c) the identification of

Page 5 of 11
a 4

any safe deposit box that is owned, controlled, managed, or held by, on behalf of, or for the
benefit of Defendants, either individually or jointly, or is otherwise subject to access by
Defendants; and |

d. Upon request _by the Commission, within ten (10) business days or such

longer period as specified by the Commission, provide the Commission with copies of all

records or other documentation pertaining to any such account or asset, including, but.not limited
to, originals or copies of account applications, account statements, signature cards, checks,
drafts, deposit tickets, transfers to and from the accounts, all other debit and credit instruments or
slips, currency transaction reports, Forms 1099, and safe deposit box logs.

C. Injunction Against Interference with Assets

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

12. | Absent express permission and leave by this Court, all persons, including but not
limited to Defendants and all trust beneficiaries, note holders, creditors, claimants, lessors, and
all other persons or entities seeking relief of any kind from Defendants’ assets (other than the
present action by the Commission and/or any civil or criminal action brought by another federal
or state agency), in law or in equity, and all persons acting on behalf of any such trust
beneficiary, note holder, creditor, claimant, lessor, consultant group, or other person, including
sheriffs, marshals, and all officers and deputies, and their respective attorneys, servants, agents
and employees, are, until further order of this Court, hereby restrained and enjoined from doing
anything, directly or indirectly, to interfere with Defendants’ assets. Accordingly, all such

persons are enjoined from engaging in any self-help, including set-offs, and from filing or

 

prosecuting any actions or proceedings which affect Defendants’ assets, specifically including

any proceeding initiated pursuant to the U. S. Bankruptcy Code, except with prior permission of

| this Court. Moreover, any such actions that are so authorized shall be filed in this Court.

Page 6 of 11
Il. BOOKS, RECORDS, AND OTHER DOCUMENTS
A. Maintenance of Business Records

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

13. | Defendants and any other persons who receive actual notice of this Order, by
personal service or otherwise, are restrained and enjoined from directly or indirectly destroying,
’ mutilating, erasing, altering, concealing or disposing of, in any manner, directly or indirectly,
any books, records, or other documents, wherever such materials may be situated, that refer or
relate in any manner to the allegations in the Complaint or to Defendants’ assets.

B. Inspection and Copying of Books and Records
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

14. Representatives of the Commission (accompanied by representatives of other
international, federal, or state authorities or the National Futures Association, if the Commission
so desires) shall be allowed immediate and continued access, until further Order of this Court, to
inspect the books, records, and other documents of Defendants and their agents, including but
not limited to electronically stored information, tape recordings, and computer discs, that refer or
relate in any manner to the allegations in the Complaint or to Defendants’ assets, wherever they
may be situated and whether such materials are in the possession of Defendants, or others, and to
copy said books, records, and other documents, either on or off the premises where they may be

Situated;

15. Within five (5) business days following the service of this Order, Defendants shall
provide the Commission immediate access to all records of Defendants held by financial
institutions located within or outside the territorial United States by signing the Consent to

Release of Financial Records attached to this Order and submitting same to the Commission.

Page 7 of 11
Ii. REQUIRED ACCOUNTING
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
16. Defendants shall prepare, sign and submit to the Commission, by April 27, 2015,
a complete and accurate accounting of Defendants’ assets as of the date of this Order. Such
accounting shall include, without limitation, the identification of:

a. All banks, futures commissions merchants, financial or brokerage institutions,
including account numbers, which hold funds, securities, commodity interests,
assets, liabilities, and other property owned or controlled (legally, equitably, or
otherwise) directly or indirectly by Defendants, whether individually or jointly;

b. All funds, securities, commodity interests, assets, liabilities, and other property
owned or controlled (legally, equitably, or otherwise) directly or indirectly by
Defendants, whether individually or jointly; and

c. The names and last known addresses of each bailee, debtor, or other person or
entity currently holding any funds, securities, commodity interests, assets or
other property owned or controlled (legally, equitably or otherwise) by
Defendants, whether individually or jointly.

IV. BOND NOT REQUIRED OF PLAINTIFF
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

17. Asanagency of the United States of America and pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(b)
(2012), Plaintiff Commission need not post a bond.

V. ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

18. Defendants shall appear before this Court on the 1°” day of Wan ;

2015, at \o +30, q@.m., before the Honorable AnaAweo & Wood __ at the U.

Page 8 of 11
»

S. Courthouse for the Northern District of Illinois, 219 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL
60604, to show cause, if there be any, why an Order for Preliminary Injunction should not be
granted to prohibit further violations of the Act and Regulations and why the other relief
requested should not be granted pending trial on the merits of this action.

19. Should any party wish to file a memorandum of law or other papers in opposition
to Plaintiff's Motion for a Preliminary Injunction, all papers shall be filed on or before

Arnx<i\ 24 , 2015 with concurrent electronic service on the Commission’s
i |

 

counsel of record and served on the Commission’s Kansas City, Missouri office to the attention
of the Commission’s counsel in this case no later than 24 hours after filing with the Court. Any
reply papers shall be filed with the Court and delivered to opposing counsel no later than
$:.00 _ o’clock Mm. on Aoci\ 29 , 2015. Service of all papers shall be by
electronic mail, facsimile, overnight delivery, or personal service.

VI. SERVICE
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

20. | Copies of this Order may be served by any means, including facsimile and e-mail
transmission, upon any entity or person that may have possession, custody, or control of any of
Defendants’ documents or any of Defendants’ assets that may be subject to any provision of this
~ Order, and, additionally, that Charles Marvine, Jeff Le Riche, Jennifer Chapin, Jo Mettenburg,
Allison Sizemore, Jessica Harris, and Jeremy Christianson, or other representatives of the
Commission, representative(s) of the U.S. Marshals Service, and representatives of international
state or local law enforcement agencies in the jurisdictions within which Defendants reside or
may be located are specially appointed by the Court to effect service. Further, service of the ——___—
Summons, Complaint, or other process may be effected by any Commission representative, any |

U.S. Marshal or deputy U.S. Marshal, or in accordance with Fed. R. Civ. P. 4, and service on

Page 9 of 11
corporate entities may be effected by serving the Summons, Complaint, or other process via

overnight delivery to the registered agent of said corporate entities.

VU. FORCE AND EFFECT
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

21. This Order shall remain in full force and effect until further Order of this Court,
and that this Court retains jurisdiction of this matter for all purposes.
IT IS SO ORDERED, at Chicago, Illinois, on the (T2** day of

Proci\ , 2015, at $148 m.
4 —

Utube

UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUBGE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

 

Page 10 of 11
CONSENT TO RELEASE OF FINANCIAL RECORDS

I, Navinder Singh Sarao, a resident of , do hereby direct
any bank, trust, or other financial company, as well as any of its officers, employees, and agents,
at which I have or had a bank account or other financial account of any kind operated under my
name or any other name (including any corporation or other entity) for which I am or was
authorized to draw on the account, to disclose all information and deliver copies of all documents
of every nature in the bank’s, trust’s, or other financial company’s. possession or control which
relate to said bank or other financial accounts to any attorney or investigator of the United States
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and to give evidence relevant thereto, in the matter of
United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Nav Sarao Futures Limited, PLC, et

al., Case No. | , how pending before the United States District Court for

 

the.Northern District of Illinois and this shall be irrevocable authority for so doing. This
direction is intended to apply to not only the laws of the United States, but also to the laws of
countries other than the United States which restrict or prohibit the disclosure of bank
information without the consent of the holder of the account, and shall be construed as consent
with respect thereto, and the same shall apply to any of the bank accounts or other financial
accounts for which I may be a relevant principal.

Dated:

 

 

Printed Name

 

Signature

 

Page 11 of 11
