Case 2:15-cv-00237-SFifmeCM Document 11 Filed 04/15/1 5m age 1 of 10 PagelD 103

  
 

FI tn
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA IS APR IS AIO: 59
FORT MYERS DIVISION : :
iDGLE: |.
UNITED STATES COMMODITY FL itvens, 76
FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION,
Plaintiff,
v. Case No.: 2:15-cv-237-FtM-38CM
DORIAN A. GARCIA, individually and
d/b/a DG WEALTH MANAGEMENT, FILED UNDER SEAL
COMMODITY PROJECTIONS and

PREDSYST LLC; DG WEALTH
MANAGEMENT; MACROQUANTUM
CAPITAL LLC; and UKUSA CURRENCY
FUND LP,

Defendants.
/

ORDER

This matter comes before the Court on Plaintiff United States Commodity Futures
Trading Commission ("Commission" or "CFTC")'s Emergency Ex Parte Statutory
Restraining Order filed under seal on April 14, 2015.

Contemporaneously with the instant Motion, the Commission filed a Complaint for
Injunctive and Other Relief and Penalties. The Commission moves under Section
6c(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (the "Act"), 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(a), for an ex parte
statutory restraining order freezing assets and prohibiting the destruction of books,
records, or other documents. Having considered the pleadings, declarations,
exhibits, and memorandum filed in support of the Commission's Motion for an Ex

Parte Statutory Restraining Order, the Court finds as follows:

3-11
Case 2:15-cv-00237-SF@*CM Document 11 Filed 04/15/15—Rage 2 of 10 PagelD 104

a. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and over the subject matter
ofthis action under Sections 2(c)(2) and 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 2(c)(2) and 13a-1
(2012), which authorize the Commission to seek injunctive relief against any person
whenever it shall appear that such person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to
engage in any act or practice constituting a violation of any provision of the Act or any
tule, regulation, or order thereunder.

Bi Venue lies properly within this District under Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7
U.S.C.§ 13a-1(e) (2012), in that Defendants are found, inhabit, or transact business
in this District, and the acts and practices in violation of the Act have occurred, are
occurring or are about to occur within this District.

c. The Commission presented evidence that from May 2010 through the
present, Dorian A. Garcia, individually and as controlling person of DG Wealth
Management, Macroquantum Capital LLC, and UKUSA Currency Fund LP, and at
least two other unincorporated entities controlled by Garcia, Commodity Projections and
PredSyst, LLC (collectively referred to as "Defendants"), fraudulently solicited at least
eighty (80) individuals to invest approximately $4.7 million in pooled retail off-exchange
foreign currency contracts (commonly known as forex") on a leveraged or margined
basis, commodity options and a variety of other investment schemes. The Commission
also presented evidence that Garcia made misrepresentations and omitted material
facts to actual and prospective investors and pool participants by (1) falsely promising
their principal was protected with a large cash and collateral account; (2)
misrepresenting the total amount of funds managed; (3) falsely reporting historically

large profits in existing trading accounts; and (4) failing to disclose that he
Case 2:15-cv-00237-SP@*€M Document 11 Filed 04/15/15-Rage 3 of 10 PagelD 105

misappropriated investor funds. These representations and omissions, among others,
operated as a fraud or deceit upon actual and prospective investors and pool
participants. The Commission also presented evidence that Garcia's misrepresentations
continued for more than four (4) years and became an integral part of Garcia's
underlying fraud of operating a Ponzi scheme and misappropriating investor funds.

d. Weighing the equities and considering the Commission's likelihood of
success in its claims for relief, the issuance of a statutory restraining order is in the
public interest and there is good cause to believe that Defendants have engaged in,
are engaging in, or are about to engage in fraudulent conduct in violation of Sections
4b(a)(2)(A)-(C), 4c(b), 40(1) and 6(c)(1), of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(2)(A)-(C),
6c(b), 60(1) and 9(1) (2012), and Regulations 4.20(c), 5.2(b)(J)-(3), 33.10, and 180.1,
17 C.F.R. §§ 4.20(c), 5.2(b)(1)-(3), 33.10 and 180.1 (2014), and by failing to register
in various capacities, in violation of Sections 2(c)(2)(C)(iii)(1)(cc), 4k(2) and 4m(1) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 2(c)(2)(C)(iii)(I)(cc), 6k(2) and 6m(1), and Regulations 3.12,
5.3(a)(2)(i)-(ii), 17 C.F.R. §§ 3.12, 5.3 (a)(2)(i), 5.3(a)(2)(ii) (2014).

e. There is good cause to believe that immediate and irreparable damage
to the Court's ability to grant effective final relief for pool participants in the form of
monetary redress will occur from the sale, transfer, assignment, or other disposition
by Defendants of assets or records unless Defendants are immediately restrained
and enjoined by Order of the Court.

f. There is good cause for the Court to freeze assets owned, controlled,

managed, or held by or on behalf of, or for the benefit of Defendants. Absent the entry
Case 2:15-cv-00237-SP@*EM Document 11 Filed 04/15/15-eRage 4 of 10 PagelD 106

of this statutory restraining order, Defendants are likely to dissipate or transfer assets
and destroy business records.

g. There is good cause for entry of an order prohibiting Defendants, their
agents, servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and persons in active concert or
participation with Defendants, including any successor thereof, from destroying records
and/or denying agents of the Commission immediate and complete access to
Defendants’ books and records for inspection and copying.

h. This is a proper case for granting an ex parte statutory restraining order
to preserve the status quo, protect public investors and pool participants from loss
and damage, and enable the Commission to fulfill its statutory duties.

Accordingly, it is

ORDERED:

(1) Plaintiff United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission's Under
Seal Emergency Ex Parte Statutory Restraining Order is GRANTED in part and TAKEN
UNDER ADVISEMENT.

a. To the extent the Commission requests an ex parte statutory restraining
order, the Motion is GRANTED as forth below.

b. To the extent the Commission requests the entry of a preliminary
injunction, the Motion is TAKEN UNDER ADVISEMENT.

(2) For the purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:

a. The term "assets" means any legal or equitable interest in, right to,
or claim to, any real or personal property, whether individually or

jointly, directly or indirectly controlled, and wherever located,
Case 2:15-cv-00237-SR@=CM Document 11 Filed 04/15/18™Page 5 of 10 PagelD 107

including but not limited to: chattels, goods, instruments, equipment,
fixtures, general intangibles, effects, leaseholds mail or other
deliveries, inventory, checks, notes, accounts (including, but not
limited to, bank accounts and accounts at other financial institutions),
credits, receivables, lines of credit, contracts (including spot, futures,
options, or swaps contracts), insurance policies, and all cash,
wherever located, whether in the United States or outside the United
States.

b. The term "document" is synonymous in meaning and equal in scope
to the usage of the term in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 34(a) and
includes, but is not limited to, all writings or printed matter of any kind,
including without limitation: records, correspondence, memoranda,
notes, rolodexes, address books, diaries, statistics, e-mail, letters,
telegrams, minutes, contracts, reports, studies, checks, statements,
receipts, returns, summaries, pamphlets, books, prospectuses,
interoffice or intra-office communications, telephone message slips,
offers, notations of conversations, bulletins, drawings, plans,
computer printouts, computer input or output, teletypes, facsimiles,
invoices, worksheets, ledger books, books of accounts, and all drafts,
alterations, modifications, changes and amendments of any of the
foregoing. The term “document” also includes graphs, charts,
photographs, phonographic record, audio and video recordings,

computer records, meta data, and other data compilations from which
Case 2:15-cv-00237-SH@*CM Document 11 Filed 04/1 5/1 5mPage 6 of 10 PagelD 108

information can be obtained or translated, if necessary, through
detection devices into reasonable usable form. The term "document"
also refers to each document in your actual or constructive possession,
including but not limited to: (i) all documentswithin your custody or
control of any of your present or former agents, employers, employees,
partners; and (ii) all documents that you have a legal or equitable right
to obtain from another person. A draft or non-identical copy is a
separate document within the meaning of the term. A document also
includes the file and folder tabs associated with each original and copy.

c. “Defendants” refer to Dorian A. Garcia, DG Wealth Management,
Macroquantum Capital LLC, and UKUSA Currency Fund LP and any
person insofar as they are acting in the capacity of an officer, agent
servant, employee, or attorney of Defendants and any person who
receives actual notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise
insofar as he or she is acting in concert or participation with
Defendants . Defendants also refer to any d/b/a, successor, affiliate,
subsidiary, or other entity owned, controlled , managed , or held by, on
behalf of, or for the benefit of Dorian A. Garcia.

RELIEF GRANTED
(3) ASSET FREEZE
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:
a. Defendants and their agents, servants, employees, assigns,

attorneys, and person in active concert or participation with them,
Case 2:15-cv-00237-SH@CM Document 11 Filed 4/15/LomPage 7 of 10 PagelD 109

including any successor thereof, and persons inactive concert or
participation with them, who receive actual notice of this Order by
personal service or otherwise, are immediately restrained and
enjoined, except as otherwise ordered by this Court, from directly or
indirectly: transferring, removing, selling, alienating, liquidating,
encumbering, pledging, leasing, loaning, assigning, concealing,
dissipating, converting, withdrawing, or otherwise disposing of any
assets, wherever located, including Defendants’ assets held outside
the United States.

b. Defendants are restrained and enjoined from directly or indirectly
opening or causing to be opened any safe deposit boxes titled in the
name of, or subject to, access by Defendants.

c. The assets affected by this Order shall include both existing assets
and assets acquired after the effective date of this Order.

(4) MAINTENANCE OF AND ACCESS TO BUSINESS RECORDS
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

a. Defendants and all persons or entities who receive notice of this
Order by personal service or otherwise, are restrained from directly
or indirectly destroying, mutilating, erasing, altering, concealing or
disposing of, in any manner, directly or indirectly, any documents that
relate to the business practices or business or personal finances of

Defendants.
Case 2:15-cv-00237-SP@\CM Document 11 Filed 04/15/LamPage 8 of 10 PagelD 110

(5) BOND NOT REQUIRED OF THE COMMISSION
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

a. Since the Commission is an agency of the United States of America
and has made a proper showing under Section 6c(b) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. § 13a-1(b), this restraining order is granted without bond.
(6) INSPECTION AND COPYING OF BOOKS AND RECORDS

 

IT 1S FURTHER ORDERED that:

a. Representatives of the Commission be immediately allowed to inspect
the books, records, and other documents of Defendants and their
agents including, but not limited to, paper documents, electronically
stored information, tape recordings, and computer discs, wherever they
may be situated and whether they are in the possession of Defendants
or others, and to copy said documents, data and records, either on or
off the premises where they may be situated.

(7) SERVICE OF ORDER
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

a. Copies of this Order may be served by any means, including facsimile
or email transmission, upon any financial institution or other entity or
person that may have possession, custody, or control of any
documents or assets of Defendants, or that may be subject to any

provision of this Order.
Case 2:15-Cv-00237-SRE*CM Document 11 Filed 04/1 5/1oemPage 9 of 10 PagelD 111

b. Representatives of the Commission, the United States Marshals
Service, and the Florida Office of Financial Regulations, are appointed
by the Court to effect service of this Order.

c. The United States Marshals Service and the Florida Office of Financial
Regulation, in order to ensure the safety of Commission
representatives, are authorized to accompany and assist the
Commission in the service on Defendants of the summons, complaint,
and supporting motions, memoranda , and orders entered with this
Order.

d. The Commission shall immediately file proof of service with the Court
once accomplished.

(8) SERVICE ON THE COMMISSION
ITIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

a. Defendants shall comply with all electronic filing rules and
requirements of the United States District Court of the Middle District of
Florida and shall serve all pleadings, correspondence, notices required
by this Order, and other materials on the Commission by delivering a
copy to Susan Padove, Sr. Trial Attorney, Division of Enforcement,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 525 W. Monroe, Suite 1100,
Chicago, Illinois 60661, by electronic filing, e-mail, personal delivery
or courier service (such as Federal Express or United Parcel Service)

and not by regular mail due to potential delay resulting from heightened
Case 2.15-Cv-00237-SF@CM Document 11 Filed 04/15/15<eRage 10 of 10 PagelD 112

security and decontamination procedures applicable to the
Commission's regular mail.
(9) PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION HEARING
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
a. Plaintiffs Motion for a Preliminary Injunction is set for hearing on April
29, 2015, at 9:30 a.m., before the undersigned in the United States
Courthouse, 2110 First Street, Fort Myers, Florida 33901, in Courtroom
5D. Counsel for Plaintiff and Defendants shall appear in person and
telephonic appearances will not be permitted.
b. Defendants shall have up to and including 5:00 p.m. on Thursday,
April 22, 2015, to file a memorandum in opposition to Plaintiffs Motion
for Injunctive and Other Relief, including any affidavits or declarations
on which they rely.
(10) FORCE AND EFFECT
It is FURTHER ORDERED that:
a, Unless extended or earlier dissolved by Order of this Court, the Statutory
Restraining Order shall expire on midnight on April 29, 2015.
DONE and ORDERED in Fort Myers, Florida this 15th day of April, 2015.

van WPhlatrrfRe

UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE

ob Copies to: Counsel for Plaintiff

10
