Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 1 of 20

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, :

100 F Street, N.E. :
Washington, D.C. 20549, :
Plaintiff, Civil Action No.
v. COMPLAINT
ELI LILLY AND COMPANY,
Defendant.

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission alleges as follows:
SUMMARY

1. Eli Lilly and Company (“Lilly”) violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of
1977 (“FCPA”) in connection with the activities of its subsidiaries in China, Brazil, Poland and
Russia.

2. Between 2006 and 2009, employees of Lilly’s China subsidiary falsified expense
reports in order to provide improper gifts and cash payments to government-employed
physicians. In 2007, a pharmaceutical distributor hired by Lilly in Brazil paid bribes to
government health officials in a Brazilian state in order to assure sales of a Lilly product to state
government institutions. In Poland, between 2000 and 2003, Lilly’s subsidiary made eight
payments totaling approximately $39,000 to a small charitable foundation that was founded and
administered by the head of one of the regional government health authorities at the same time

that the subsidiary was seeking the official’s support for placing Lilly drugs on the government
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 2 of 20

reimbursement list. Finally, Lilly’s subsidiary in Russia paid millions of dollars to off-shore
entities for alleged “services” beginning as early as 1994 and continuing through 2005 in order
for pharmaceutical distributors and government entities to purchase Lilly’s drugs. In some
instances, the off-shore entities appear to have been used to funnel money to government
officials or others with influence in the government in order to obtain business for the subsidiary.
These off-shore entities rarely provided the contracted-for services. Moreover, between 2005
and 2008, contemporaneous with requests to government officials to support the government’s
purchase or reimbursement of Lilly’s products, the subsidiary in Russia made proposals to
government officials about how the company could donate to, or otherwise support, various
initiatives that were affiliated with, or important to, the government officials.

3. As a result of this conduct, Lilly violated Sections 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)] by failing to have an
adequate internal controls system in place to detect and prevent illicit payments. Lilly violated
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)] by improperly recording each of
those payments in its accounting books and records. Lilly also violated Section 30A of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1] in connection with certain activities of its subsidiary in
Russia. Unless restrained and enjoined by the Court, Lilly will continue to engage in acts and
practices that constitute, or will constitute, violations of these provisions.

JURISDICTION

4. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d), 21(e)
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. Lilly directly and indirectly
made use of the mails and of the means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce in

connection with certain of the acts, practices and courses of business described in this Complaint.
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 3 of 20

Certain of the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged herein occurred within
this District, and venue is proper pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78aa]
or 28 U.S.C. § 1391(d).

DEFENDANT

5. Eli Lilly and Company is an Indiana corporation with its headquarters located at
Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285. Lilly is a pharmaceutical manufacturer that
markets products in over 143 countries. Its common stock is registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol “LLY.”

6. Outside of the United States, Lilly sells its products, both directly and through
distributors or other intermediaries, to government-controlled entities, such as ministries of
health and government-owned hospitals and clinics.

FACTS
Poland

7. During 2000 through 2003, Lilly’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Poland (“Lilly-
Poland”) made eight payments totaling approximately $39,000 to the Chudow Castle Foundation
(“Chudow Foundation”), a small charitable foundation in Poland that was founded and
administered by the Director of the Silesian Health Fund (“Director”). The Director established
the Chudow Foundation in 1995 to restore the Chudow Castle in the town of Chudow and other
historic sites in the Silesian region of Poland.

8. The Silesian Health Fund (“Health Fund”) was one of sixteen regional
government health authorities in Poland during the period. Among other things, the Health Fund

reimbursed hospitals and healthcare providers for the purchase of certain approved products.
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 4 of 20

The Health Fund, through the allocation of public money, exercised considerable influence over
which pharmaceutical products local hospitals and other healthcare providers in the region
purchased.

9. Beginning in early 2000 and into 2002, Lilly-Poland was in negotiations with the
Health Fund over, among other things, the Heath Fund’s financing of the purchase of Gemzar,
one of Lilly’s cancer drugs, by public hospitals and other healthcare providers. Those
negotiations occurred primarily between a team manager at Lilly-Poland (“Lilly Manager”) and
the Director. Continuing at intervals throughout these negotiations, the Director asked that Lilly-
Poland contribute to the Chudow Foundation. The initial request came directly from the Director
and the subsequent requests came from the Chudow Foundation.

10. The Lilly-Poland Manager knew that the Director had established the Chudow
Foundation and that it was a project to which he was devoted and lent much effort. The Manager
requested the approval of payments to the Chudow Foundation. The Manager falsely described
the first payment as being for the purchase of computers for the Chudow Foundation. The
second Lilly-Poland payment request falsely characterized the proposed payment as “[t]o support
foundation in its goal to develop activities in [Chudow Castle].” That request documentation
also noted that the “value of the request” was “[i]ndirect support of educational efforts of
foundation settled by Silesia [Health Fund].” Similarly, the remaining payments were
mischaracterized as monies paid by Lilly-Poland to secure the use of the Chudow Castle for
conferences after its renovation. No such conferences took place.

11. Lilly-Poland eventually made a total of eight payments to the Chudow

Foundation, starting in June 2000 and ending in January 2003. Lilly-Poland contributed 154,500
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 5 of 20

zlotys (PLN) (approximately $39,000) to the Chudow Foundation, as summarized in the table

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

below.

Date Amount

June 21, 2000 12,000 PLN ($2,730)
November 13, 2000 8,500 PLN ($1,855)
May 22, 2001 32,000 PLN ($8,019)
November 5, 2001 10,000 PLN ($2,438)
March 27, 2002 32,000 PLN ($7,779)
June 14, 2002 30,000 PLN ($7,434)
November 20, 2002 20,000 PLN ($5,112)
January 29, 2003 10,000 PLN ($2,622)

 

12. The Manager requested the approval of the payments to the Chudow Foundation
with the intent of inducing the Health-Fund Director to allocate public monies to hospitals and
other healthcare providers in the Health Fund for the purpose of purchasing Gemzar. For
example, in February 2002, the Director, following a meeting with the Manager, authorized
financing a purchase of Gemzar. Two days later, the Chudow Foundation sent a letter to Lilly-
Poland requesting a payment of 32,000 PLN (which Lilly-Poland made on March 27, 2002). An
internal record at Lilly-Poland (a spreadsheet entitled “Expenses 2002”) reflects that this
payment to the Chudow Foundation was “for [the Director].”

13.. Two Lilly-Poland emails also reflect the improper purpose of the payments to the
Chudow Foundation. Prior to the first payment, the Manager told another Lilly-Poland
employee in a May 31, 2000 email that the Health-Fund Director needed more convincing about
purchasing Gemzar. In that email, under the heading “Sponsorships,” the Manager observed that
Lilly-Poland was to pay:

12,000 zlotys in two installments, not very far removed from each other, to the

Chudow Castle Foundation, [the Health Fund Director’s] hobby, supposedly for

the purchase of computers. . . For your information regarding the size of the

budget for this year, I decided to invest 70-75% for Silesia. I have given [the
Health Fund Director] a free hand as to managing the Lilly investment,
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 6 of 20

emphasizing the fact we are only doing this for him . . . and we don’t need the
publicity.

14. In a March 19, 2001 email to a Lilly-Poland colleague, the Manager noted that
one of the tasks was Lilly-Poland’s “[d]Jetermination of the amount of the rebate for the director
in connection with the ‘Castle’ Foundation.” In that email, when describing the budget, the
Manager wrote: “the so-called rebate for the ‘Castle’ . . . will depend on the purchases of
medicines.” Accordingly, textual references in both emails — “supposedly for the purchase of
computers” and “‘the so-called rebate for the ‘Castle’” — underscore the Manager’s attempts to
create a pretext and false justifications for the payments to the Chudow Foundation.

15. The final seven payments to the Chudow Foundation were approved by the Lilly-
Poland “Medical Grant Committee” (“MGC”), which included Lilly-Poland’s Managing
Director, Finance Director and Regulatory and Medical Director. The MGC approved the
payments based largely on the justification and description in the submitted paperwork. The
MGC procedures did not adequately analyze the circumstances outside the paperwork such as:
(i) the Chudow Foundation was a project founded and administered by a high-level government
health official who had significant authority over whether the Health Fund would pay for Lilly-
Poland products in Silesia, one of Poland’s most populous regions; (11) Lilly-Poland was in
negotiations to persuade the Director to finance the purchase of one of Lilly’s cancer products at
the time of the requests from the Chudow Foundation for payments; (iii) the justifications for the
first two payments were different from each other and different from the justification given for
the remaining six payments; (iv) the request for one of the largest payments came two days after
the Director had met with the Manager and agreed to authorize financing the purchase of a large

quantity of Gemzar by the Health Fund; and (v) the payments to the Chudow Foundation were
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12. Page 7 of 20

the only payments by Lilly-Poland to an archeological and/or restoration project, despite the
existence of numerous other such projects in Poland at the time.
China

16. Lilly’s wholly-owned subsidiary through which it does business in China (“Lilly-
China”) employs more than one-thousand sales representatives whose main focus is on
marketing Lilly products to government-employed health-care providers. During the relevant
period, the sales representatives worked from regional offices and traveled throughout the
country, interacting with the health-care providers in order to convince them to prescribe Lilly
products. The sales representatives were directly supervised by District Sales Managers who, in
turn, were supervised by Regional Managers. Sales representatives paid out-of-pocket for their
travel expenses and submitted receipts and other documentation to the company for
reimbursement.

17. | Between 2006 and 2009, various sales representatives and their supervisors
abused the system by submitting, or instructing subordinates to submit, false expense reports. In
some instances, Lilly-China personnel used reimbursements from those false reports to purchase
gifts and entertainment for government-employed physicians in order to encourage the
physicians to look favorably upon Lilly and prescribe Lilly products.

18. In one sales area, in 2006 and 2007, a District Sales Manager for Lilly’s diabetes
products instructed subordinates to submit false expenses reports and provide the reimbursement
money to her. She then used the reimbursements to purchase gifts, such as wine, specialty foods
and a jade bracelet, for government-employed physicians. At least five sales representatives in
the oncology sales group submitted false expense reports and then used those reimbursements to

provide meals, visits to bath houses, and card games to government-employed physicians.
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 8 of 20

19. Similarly, in three other provinces, three sales representatives submitted false
expense reports and then used the reimbursements to provide government-employed physicians
with visits to bath houses and karaoke bars. In another city, five sales representatives submitted
false reimbursements and then their Regional Manager used the money to provide door prizes
and publication fees to government-employed physicians. In another city, seven sales
representatives and the District Sales Manager for the diabetes sales team used reimbursements
to buy meals and cosmetics for government-employed physicians.

20. Between 2008 and 2009, members of Lilly-China’s “Access Group,” which was
responsible for expanding access to Lilly products in China by, among other things, convincing
government officials to list Lilly products on government reimbursement lists, engaged in similar
misconduct. At least six members of the sixteen-member Access Group, including two associate
access directors, falsified expense reports and used the proceeds to provide gifts and
entertainment to government officials in China. The gifts included: spa treatments, meals, and
cigarettes.

21. Although the dollar amount of each gift was generally small, the improper
payments were wide-spread throughout the subsidiary. Lilly has terminated, or otherwise
disciplined, the various employees who submitted false expense reports and/or used the proceeds
to provide gifts and services to government officials.

Brazil

22. Between 2007 and 2009, Lilly-Brazil distributed drugs in Brazil through third-
party distributors who then resold those products to both private and government entities. As a
general rule, Lilly-Brazil sold the drugs to the distributors at a discount; the distributors then

resold the drugs to the end users at a higher price and took the discount as their compensation.
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 9 of 20

Lilly-Brazil negotiated the amount of the discount with the distributor based on the distributor’s
anticipated sale. The discount to the distributors generally ranged between 6.5% and 15%, with
the majority of distributors in Brazil receiving a 10% discount.

23. In early 2007, at the request of one of Lilly-Brazil’s sales and marketing
managers at the time, Lilly-Brazil granted a nationwide pharmaceutical distributor, unusually
large discounts of 17% and 19% for two of the distributor’s purchases of a Lilly drug, which the
distributor then sold to the government of one of the Brazilian states. Lilly-Brazil’s pricing
committee approved the discounts without further inquiry. The policies and procedures in place
to flag unusual distributor discounts were deficient. They relied on the representations of the
sales and marketing manager without adequate verification and analysis of the surrounding
circumstances of the transactions. In May 2007, Lilly sold 3,200 milligrams of the drug to the
distributor for resale to the Brazilian state; in August 2007, Lilly-Brazil sold 13,500 milligrams
of the drug to the distributor for resale to the Brazilian state. Together the sales were valued at
approximately $1.2 million.

24. The distributor used approximately 6% of the purchase price (approximately
$70,000) to bribe government officials from the Brazilian state so that the state would purchase
the Lilly product. The Lilly-Brazil sales and marketing manager who requested the discount

knew about this arrangement.

Russia
25. From 1994 through 2005, Lilly-Vostok, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lilly, sold
pharmaceutical products either directly to government entities in the former Soviet Union or
through various distributors, often selected by the government, who would then resell the

products to the government entities. Along with the underlying purchase contract with the
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 10 of 20

government entity or distributor, Lilly-Vostok sometimes entered into another agreement with a
third-party selected by a government official or by the government-chosen pharmaceutical
distributor. Generally, these third-parties, which had addresses and bank accounts located
outside of Russia, were paid a flat fee or a percentage of the sale. These agreements were
referred to as “marketing” or “service” agreements. In total, Lilly-Vostok entered into over 96
such agreements with over 42 third-party entities between 1994 and 2004.

26. —_ Lilly- Vostok had little information about these third-party entities, beyond their
addresses and bank accounts. Rarely did Lilly-Vostok know who owned them or whether the
entities were actual businesses that could provide legitimate services. Senior management
employees in Lilly-Vostok’s Moscow branch assisted in the negotiation of these agreements.
The contracts themselves were derived from a Lilly-Vostok-created template and enumerated
various broadly-defined services, such as ensuring “immediate customs clearance” or
“immediate delivery” of the products; or assisting Lilly- Vostok in “obtaining payment for the

99 66

sales transaction,” “the promotion of the products,” and “marketing research.”

27. Contrary to what was recorded in the company’s books and records, there is little
evidence that any services were actually provided under any of these third-party agreements.
Indeed, in many instances, the “services” identified in the contract were already being provided
by the distributor, a third-party handler (such as an international shipping handler) or Lilly itself.
To the extent services such as expedited customs clearance or other services requiring interaction
with government officials were provided, Lilly-Vostok did not know or inquire how the third-
party intended to perform their services.

28. | Contemporaneous documents reflect that Lilly-Vostok employees viewed the

payments as necessary to obtain the business from the distributor or government entity, and not

10
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 11 of 20

as payment for legitimate services. For example, in November 1994, a senior manager at Lilly-
Vostok emailed the commercial manager, the employee tasked with drafting and approving the
language of the agreements, that the “standard Marketing Agreement [is] where the [service
provider] delivers the service of getting this [purchase] contract for us ....” In August 1999, the
commercial manager emailed senior managers that “if real services are provided the marketing
agreement is not the appropriate form.” In other documents, Lilly-Vostok employees referred to
the payments as “discounts” or “commissions” to the distributor or government purchaser.

29. In 1997, Lilly conducted a business review of Lilly-Vostok to identify business
risks and assess the subsidiary’s policies and procedures which resulted in a report. The report,
which was sent to Lilly-Vostok offices in Geneva and to Lilly headquarters in Indianapolis,
noted that “[b]usiness ethics [in Russia] are low” and that “[a] large base of opportunistic
entrepreneurs, lacking national presence build the distribution network.” The report concluded
that “[t]he nature and complexity of customers require that ‘consultants’ be used to ‘support’
activities, leading to agreement signing” (quotation marks in the original). The report pointed
out that the services provided by these consultants were broadly defined and duplicated activities
usually performed by Lilly-Vostok’s Russian staff, and that documentation of the services
received was not available. The report recommended that Lilly-Vostok modify its internal
controls to ensure that the services were documented and Lilly-Vostok was getting “value.”

30. In 1999, Lilly again reviewed Lilly-Vostok’s operations, including its use of
marketing agreements and concluded that they raised concerns. A second report, which was sent
to Geneva and Indianapolis headquarters and distributed to, among others, the individuals who at
that time were Lilly’s Chief Financial Officer, President of Lilly International Operations and

General Auditor, stated that:

11
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 12 of 20

Attention has been given to contain external unethical pressures through

guidelines and training. The use of marketing agreements with third-

parties has been tightened; agreements substance and permanent education

program continue to require effort and refinements.

31. Regarding the agreements, the second report concluded that the “{n]Jeed exists to
call on third-parties to create sales potential.” It recommended that Lilly-Vostok modify its
internal controls to assure itself that the agreements accurately and fairly reflect the services to
be provided.

32. Lilly did not curtail the use of marketing agreements by its subsidiary or make
any meaningful efforts to ensure that the marketing agreements were not being used as a method
to funnel money to government officials, despite recognition that the marketing agreements were
being used to “create sales potential” or “to ‘support’ activities leading to agreement-signing”
with government entities. In fact, during the 2000-2004 period -- after the above-described
reports, but prior to the company ending use of the agreements -- Lilly-Vostok entered into the
three most expensive of these arrangements.

33. For example, in 2002, the Russian Ministry of Health announced that it would
engage in a “federal tender” in which it would purchase drugs for the treatment of diabetes to be
provided free of charge to patients by the government. Under the terms of the tender, the
ministry selected a large Russian pharmaceutical distributor from which to purchase the
products, and this distributor, in turn, negotiated with Lilly-Vostok for the purchase of diabetes
products for resale to the Ministry of Health.

34. The large Russian pharmaceutical distributor was owned and controlled by a
wealthy and prominent Russian businessman. The Russian pharmaceutical distributor required

Lilly-Vostok, as a condition of their agreement, to enter into a “Storage and Delivery

Agreement” with an entity incorporated in Cyprus. In July 2002, Lilly-Vostok executed the

12
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 13 of 20

purchase agreement with the distributor, which was signed on the distributor’s behalf by its
chairman, the prominent Russian businessman. At approximately the same time, Lilly-Vostok
also entered into the “Storage and Delivery Agreement” with the entity in Cyprus.

35.  Lilly’s due diligence regarding the entity in Cyprus was limited to ordering a Dun
and Bradstreet report and conducting a search using an internet service to scan publicly available
information. Neither the Dun and Bradstreet report nor the internet search revealed the Cyprus
entity’s beneficial owner or anything about its business. Nonetheless, pursuant to the terms of its
arrangement with the distributor, Lilly-Vostok paid the entity in Cyprus over $3.8 million in
early 2003.

36. The Cyprus entity was, in fact, owned by the Russian businessman who was the
owner of the distributor. There is no evidence of services provided to Lilly-Vostok by the
Cyprus entity in consideration for Lilly- Vostok’s $3.8 million in payments. Lilly’s books and
records improperly reflected these payments as payments for services.

37. In at least two instances, the arrangements involved foreign government officials.
Between 2000 and 2005, Lilly-Vostok sold significant amounts of pharmaceutical products to a
major Russian pharmaceutical distributor for resale to the Russian Ministry of Health. The
pharmaceutical distributor was owned and controlled by an individual who, at the beginning of
the distributor’s relationship with Lilly-Vostok, was a close adviser to a member of Russia’s
Parliament. In 2003, this official became a member of the upper house of Russia’s Parliament.
Throughout the period, this official exercised considerable influence over government decisions
relating to the pharmaceutical industry in Russia.

38. As part of most of the sales arrangements with the distributor, the official

demanded that Lilly-Vostok enter into separate “marketing” agreements with entities with

13
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 14 of 20

addresses and bank accounts in Cyprus. Under the arrangement, Lilly-Vostok paid the Cypriot
entities up to thirty percent of the sales price of the underlying sales contracts in return for the
Cypriot entities entering into an agreement “to offer all assistance necessary” in various areas
like storage, importation and payment.

39. In conjunction with outside counsel, Lilly-Vostok conducted limited due diligence
on these third-parties. However, the due diligence did not identify the beneficial owners of these
third-parties or determine whether the third-parties were able to provide the contracted-for
assistance. Nonetheless, Lilly-Vostok concluded that it could proceed with the transactions and
paid the Cypriot entities over $5.2 million. In fact, the Cypriot entities were owned by an
individual associated with the distributor controlled by the member of the upper house of Russia
Parliament. The Cypriot entity transferred the payments from Lilly-Vostok to other off-shore
entities.

40. In connection with another series of contracts, from 2000 through 2004, Lilly-
Vostok sold products to a distributor, headquartered in Moscow, which was wholly-owned by a
Russian government entity. The purchase agreements were signed on the government-owned
distributor’s behalf by its General Director. As part of the arrangement, the government-owned
distributor selected a third-party entity with an address in the British Virgin Islands (“the BVI
entity”) with which Lilly-Vostok entered into agreements for the broadly defined
“services” enumerated in the Lilly-Vostok template (see above). Under the terms of the
agreements between Lilly-Vostok and the BVI entity, Lilly-Vostok was to pay the BVI entity up
to 15% of the price of the product purchased by the government-owned distributor. Accordingly,
from 2000 through 2005, Lilly-Vostok made approximately 65 payments to the BVI entity

totaling approximately $2 million.

14
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 15 of 20

41. There is no evidence that the BVI entity performed any of the services listed in its
agreement with Lilly-Vostok. There is also no evidence that Lilly-Vostok performed any due
diligence or inquiry as to whether the BVI entity was able or did perform the contracted-for
services. Lastly, there is no evidence that Lilly-Vostok performed any due diligence or inquiry
into the identity of the beneficial owner of the BVI entity. In fact, the beneficial owner of the
BVI entity was the General Director of the government-owned distributor, and he ulimately
received the payments from the BVI entity.

42. Lilly did not direct Lilly-Vostok to cease entering into these third-party
agreements until 2004. However, Lilly permitted the subsidiary to continue making payments
under already existing third-party contracts as late as 2005.

43. From 2005 through 2008, Lilly-Vostok made various proposals to government
officials in Russia regarding how Lilly-Vostok could donate to or otherwise support various
initiatives that were affiliated with public or private institutions headed by the government
officials or otherwise important to the government officials. Examples included their personal
participation or the participation of people from their institutions in clinical trials and
international and regional conferences and the support of charities and educational events
associated with the institutes. At times, these proposals to government officials were made in a
communication that also included a request for assistance in getting a product reimbursed or
purchased by the government. Generally, Lilly-Vostok personnel believed these proposals were
proper because of their relevance to public health issues and many of the proposals were
reviewed by counsel. Nonetheless, Lilly-Vostok did not have in place internal controls through

which such proposals were vetted to ascertain whether Lilly-Vostok was offering something of

15
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 16 of 20

value to a government official for a purpose of influencing or inducing him or her to assist Lilly-
Vostok in obtaining or retaining business.
Lilly’s Books and Records

44. __ As detailed above, subsidiaries of Eli Lilly made numerous payments that were
incorrectly described in the company’s books and records. In China, payments were falsely
described as reimbursement of expenses when, in fact, the money was used to provide gifts to
government-employed physicians. In Brazil, money that was described in company records as a
“discount” for a pharmaceutical distributor was, in actuality, a bribe for government officials. In
Poland, payments classified as charitable donations were not intended for a genuine charitable
purpose but rather to induce a government official to assent to the purchase of a Lilly product.
Finally, in Russia, millions of dollars in payments, described in the company’s books and records
as for various services, were actually payments to assure that Lilly was able to conduct business
with certain pharmaceutical distributors.

Lilly’s Internal Controls

45. During the relevant period, Lilly and its subsidiaries failed to devise and maintain
an adequate system of internal accounting sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the
company maintained accountability for its assets and transactions were executed in accordance
with management’s authorization. Particularly, Lilly did not adequately verify that
intermediaries with which the company was doing government-related business would not
provide a benefit to a government official on Lilly’s behalf in order to obtain or retain business.
Lilly and its subsidiaries primarily relied on assurances and information provided in the
paperwork by these intermediaries or by Lilly personnel rather than engaging in adequate

verification and analyzing the surrounding circumstances of the transaction. Lilly and its

16
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 17 of 20

subsidiaries’ employees considered and offered benefits to government officials at the same time
they were asking those government officials to assist with the reimbursement or purchase of
Lilly’s products with inadequate safeguards to assure that its employees were not offering items
of values to a government official with a purpose to assist Lilly in retaining or obtaining
business.

46. Moreover, despite an understanding that certain emerging markets were most
vulnerable to FCPA violations, Lilly’s audit department, based out of Indianapolis, had no
procedures specifically designed to assess the FCPA or bribery risks of sales and purchases.
Accordingly, transactions with off-shore entities or with government-affiliated entities did not
receive specialized or closer review for possible FCPA violations. In assessing these
transactions, the auditors relied upon the standard accounting controls which primarily assured
the soundness of the paperwork. There was little done to assess whether, despite the existence of
facially acceptable paperwork, the surrounding circumstances or terms of a transaction suggested
the possibility of an FCPA violation or bribery.

Lilly’s Remedial Efforts

47. Since the time of the conduct noted in this Complaint, Lilly has made
improvements to its global anti-corruption compliance program, including: enhancing anti-
corruption due diligence requirements for relationships with third parties; implementing
compliance monitoring and corporate auditing specifically tailored to anti-corruption; enhancing
financial controls and governance; and expanding anti-corruption training throughout the

organization.

17
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 18 of 20

Claim One
Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act

48. Paragraphs 4-6, 25-32 and 37-42 are hereby realleged and incorporated by
reference.

49. Section 30A of the Exchange Act prohibits public companies, through their
officers, agents, subsidiaries, and affiliates, from corruptly offering, promising to pay, or
authorizing illicit payments to a person while knowing that all or a portion of those payments
would be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to a foreign official or official of a
foreign political party for the purposes of influencing his acts or decisions in his official capacity,
inducing him to do or omit to do actions in violation of his lawful duties, securing an improper
advantage, or inducing such foreign official to use his influence with a foreign government or
instrumentality thereof to assist in obtaining or retaining business. When knowledge of the
existence of a particular circumstance is required for an offense, such knowledge is established if
a person is aware of a high probability of the existence of such circumstance, unless the person
actually believes that such circumstance does not exist.

50. As detailed above, Lilly violated Exchange Act 30A.

Claim Two
Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act

51. Paragraphs 1 through 50 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference.

52. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires public companies to make and
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.

53. Public companies are responsible for ensuring that their foreign subsidiaries

comply with Section 13(b)(2)(A).

18
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 19 of 20

54. As detailed above, Lilly, through its foreign subsidiaries, made numerous entries
in its books and records that did not accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of the assets of the issuer. In connection with these payments, Lilly failed to make and keep
accurate books, records, and accounts as required by Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A).

Claim Three
Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act

55. Paragraphs 1 through 54 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference

56. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires public companies to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances
that: (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific
authorization; and (11) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets.

57. Public companies are responsible for ensuring that their foreign subsidiaries
comply with Section 13(b)(2)(B).

58. As detailed above, Lilly failed to devise and maintain an effective system of

internal controls, as required by Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).

19
Case 1:12-cv-02045 Document1 Filed 12/20/12 Page 20 of 20

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Securities and Exchange Commission respectfully requests that this
Court enter a final judgment against Eli Lilly and Company:
a. Permanently enjoining it from violating or committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A), 12(b)(2)(B) and 30A of the

Exchange Act;

b. Ordering Eli Lilly and Company to disgorge the profits and proceeds it
obtained as a result of its actions alleged herein and to pay prejudgment interest thereon; and

C, Granting such other relief as this Court may deem just and proper.

Dated: December 20, 2012 Respectfully submitted,

ees Ce : SE sstined

Antonia Chion

Kara N. Brockmeyer

Steven A, Susswein

Attorneys for Plaintiff

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
100 F Street, Northeast

Washington, District of Columbia 20549
