Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 1 of 79 PagelD: 25

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY

CASE NO. 20-cr-538

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

v.

NOVARTIS HELLAS S.A.C.I.
Defendant.

/

 

DEFERRED PROSECUTION AGREEMENT

Defendant Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I. (“Novartis Hellas” or the “Company”), pursuant to the
authority granted by the Company’s Board of Directors reflected in Attachment B, which is
incorporated by reference into this Agreement, and the United States Department of Justice,
Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”) and the United States Attorney’s Office
for the District of New Jersey (the “Office’’), enter into this deferred prosecution agreement (the
“Agreement”). Novartis AG, which is not a defendant in this matter, also agrees, pursuant to the
authority granted by Novartis AG’s Board of Directors, to certain terms and obligations of the
Agreement as described below. The terms and conditions of this Agreement are as follows:

Criminal Information and Acceptance of Responsibility

1. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Fraud Section and the Office will
file the attached two-count criminal Information (the “Information”) in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey charging the Company with one count of conspiracy to commit

an offense against the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that
oe Py SAL Bes LAr ra 5 ~ i yee fey 3K es ae ee Oe ee ~~. Oe
2 abhi d ‘eae 4 A PPAR TAS eae FO ru see OF Ot Ul Lim et ?
Lo thee ‘ VAD OO DLV LOUTH Pi WO eo Bue aU fa Pan aQ

is, to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”),
as amended, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-3, and one count of conspiracy to commit
an offense against the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that
is, to violate the books and records provision of the FCPA, as amended, Title 15, United States
Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a). In so doing, the Company: (a) knowingly
waives its right to indictment on these charges, as well as all rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the
Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161,
and Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b); and (b) knowingly waives any objection with
respect to venue to any charges by the United States arising out of the conduct described in the
Statement of Facts attached as Attachment A (the “Statement of Facts”), which is incorporated
into this Agreement, and consents to the filing of the Information, as provided under the terms of
this Agreement, in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The Fraud
Section and the Office agree to defer prosecution of the Company pursuant to the terms and
conditions described below.

2. The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under United
States law for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as charged in the
Information, and as set forth in the Statement of Facts, and that the allegations described in the
Information and the facts described in the Statement of Facts are true and accurate. Should the
Fraud Section or the Office pursue the prosecution that is deferred by this Agreement, the
Company and Novartis AG stipulate to the admissibility of the attached Statement of Facts in any
proceeding by the Fraud Section or the Office, including any trial, guilty plea, or sentencing

proceeding, and will not contradict anything in the Statement of Facts at any such proceeding.
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 3 of 79 PagelD: 27

Term of the Agreement

3. This Agreement is effective for a period beginning on the date on which the
Information is filed and ending three years from that date (the “Term”). The Company, and the
parent company, Novartis AG, agree, however, that, in the event the Fraud Section and the Office
determine, in their sole discretion, that the Company or Novartis AG has knowingly violated any
provision of this Agreement or has failed to completely perform or fulfill each of the Company’s
or Novartis AG’s obligations under this Agreement, an extension or extensions of the Term of the
Agreement may be imposed by the Fraud Section and the Office, in their sole discretion, for up to
a total additional time period of one year, without prejudice to the Fraud Section’s or the Office’s
right to proceed as provided in Paragraphs 14 to 18 below. Any extension of the Agreement
extends all terms of this Agreement, including the terms of the reporting requirement in
Attachment D (the “Reporting Requirements”), for an equivalent period. Conversely, in the event
the Fraud Section and the Office find, in their sole discretion, that there exists a change in
circumstances sufficient to eliminate the Reporting Requirements, and that the other provisions of
this Agreement have been satisfied, the Agreement may be terminated early. If the Court rejects
the Agreement, all the provisions of the Agreement shall be deemed null and void, and the Term
shall be deemed to have not begun.

Relevant Considerations

4. The Fraud Section and the Office enter into this Agreement based on the individual

facts and circumstances presented by this case and by the Company and Novartis AG, including:

a. the Company did not receive voluntary disclosure credit pursuant to the
FCPA Corporate Enforcement Policy in the Department of Justice Manual 9-47.120, or pursuant
to the United States Sentencing Guidelines (“U.S.S.G.” or “Sentencing Guidelines”), because it
did not voluntarily self-disclose to the Fraud Section and the Office the conduct described in the
attached Statement of Facts;

b. the Company received full credit for its cooperation and Novartis AG’s
cooperation with the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s investigation, including conducting a
thorough internal investigation; making regular factual presentations to the Fraud Section and the
Office; producing extensive documentation, including documents located outside of the United
States, after taking steps that the Company and its affiliates determined complied with applicable
foreign data privacy, confidentiality, and discovery laws; and providing translations of foreign
language documents;

C. the Company and Novartis AG engaged in remedial measures, including
implementing revised and enhanced policies and procedures relating to, among other things,
accounting, anti-corruption, gifts, travel, and entertainment, both globally and at the country level;
enhancing controls relating to sponsorships to international medical congresses and Phase IV
studies; and working with outside counsel to conduct an extensive internal investigation of the
Company’s operations in Greece;

d. the Company and Novartis AG have committed to continuing to enhance
their compliance programs and internal controls, including ensuring that their compliance
programs satisfy the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C to the Agreement (the

“Corporate Compliance Program’);
oe oy oe S en" Kote ~ _ —— ot yaa oe s - ~ ir YP Po oy reeY oN ree me om, i —F oy ee om Ne i a a
based he C , dN is AG’ diati d th f
e. ased on the Company's and Novartis S remediation and the state o

their compliance programs, and the Company’s and Novartis AG’s agreement to report to the
Fraud Section and the Office as set forth in the Reporting Requirements, the Fraud Section and the
Office determined that an independent compliance monitor is unnecessary;

f. Novartis AG, the Company’s parent company, has resolved with the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC’’) through a cease-and-desist proceeding
relating to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts and other conduct, and has
agreed to pay $92,300,000 in disgorgement and prejudgment interest of $20,500,000;

g. the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct, as described in the
Statement of Facts, including payments made in connection with the sponsorship of health care
providers (“HCPs”) employed by public institutions in Greece to attend international congresses
as a means to bribe and corruptly influence the HCPs to increase prescriptions of a Novartis-
branded drug and the falsification of books, records, and accounts to conceal payments related to
improper benefits and things of value and other improper payments to HCPs, as well as the
duration of the misconduct and the involvement of high-level sales and business unit employees
at the Company;

h. Novartis AG’s March 2016 resolution of FCPA accounting allegations
relating to similar conduct in China with the SEC;

1. the Company has agreed to continue to cooperate with the Fraud Section
and the Office in any ongoing investigation as described in Paragraph 5 below;

j. Accordingly, after considering (a) through (1) above, the Company received

full cooperation and remediation credit, but because Novartis AG was involved in similar conduct
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 6 of 79 PagelD: 30

for which it reached a resolution with the SEC in March 2016, the 25 percent reduction for
cooperation and remediation was deducted from a point above the midpoint of the applicable
Sentencing Guidelines fine range.
Future Cooperation and Disclosure Requirements

5. The Company shall cooperate fully with the Fraud Section and the Office in any
and all matters relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the attached Statement of
Facts and other conduct under investigation by the Fraud Section and the Office at any time during
the Term, subject to applicable laws and regulations, until the later of the date upon which all
investigations and prosecutions arising out of such conduct are concluded, or the end of the Term.
At the request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall also cooperate fully with
other domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as the
Multilateral Development Banks (the “MDBs”), in any investigation of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, and
consultants, or any other party, in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this
Agreement and the attached Statement of Facts and other conduct under investigation by the Fraud
Section and the Office. The Company’s cooperation pursuant to this Paragraph is subject to
applicable laws and regulations, including relevant data privacy and national security laws, as well
as valid claims of attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine; however, the
Company must provide to the Fraud Section and the Office a log of any information or cooperation
that is not provided based on an assertion of law, regulation, or privilege, and the Company bears
the burden of establishing the validity of any such assertion. The Company agrees that its

cooperation pursuant to this Paragraph shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
a. The Company shall truthfully disclose all factual information with respect

to its activities, those of its subsidiaries and affiliates, and those of its present and former directors,
officers, employees, agents, and consultants, including any evidence or allegations and internal or
external investigations, about which the Company has any knowledge or about which the Fraud
Section and the Office may inquire. This obligation of truthful disclosure includes, but is not
limited to, the obligation of the Company to provide to the Fraud Section and the Office, upon
request, any document, record, or other tangible evidence about which the Fraud Section and the
Office may inquire of the Company.

b. Upon request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall
designate knowledgeable employees, agents, or attorneys to provide to the Fraud Section and the
Office the information and materials described in Paragraph 5(a) above on behalf of the Company.
It is further understood that the Company must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate
information.

C. The Company shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews or
testimony, as requested by the Fraud Section and the Office, present or former officers, directors,
employees, agents, and consultants of the Company. This obligation includes, but is not limited
to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, all meetings requested by the
Fraud Section and the Office, and interviews with domestic or foreign law enforcement and
regulatory authorities. Cooperation under this Paragraph shall include identification of witnesses
who, to the knowledge of the Company, may have material information regarding the matters

being investigated or prosecuted.
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 8 of 79 PagelD: 32

d. With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records, or other
tangible evidence provided to the Fraud Section and the Office pursuant to this Agreement, the
Company consents to any and all disclosures, subject to applicable laws and regulations, to other
governmental authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign government,
as well as the MDBs, of such materials as the Fraud Section and the Office, in their sole discretion,
shall deem appropriate.

6. In addition to the obligations in Paragraph 5, during the Term, should the Company
learn of any evidence or allegation of conduct that may constitute a violation of the FCPA anti-
bribery or accounting provisions had the conduct occurred within the jurisdiction of the United
States, the Company shall promptly report such evidence or allegation to the Fraud Section and
the Office.

Payment of Monetary Penalty

7. The Fraud Section, the Office and the Company agree that application of the
Sentencing Guidelines to determine the applicable fine range yields the following analysis:

a. The November 1, 2018 version of the U.S.S.G. is applicable to this matter.

b. Offense Level. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 2C1.1, the total offense level is 38,
calculated as follows:

(a)(2) Base Offense Level 12
(b)(1) Multiple Bribes +2
(b)(2) Value of Benefit Received +24
(more than $65,000,000 but not

more than $150,000,000)

TOTAL 38
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 9 of 79 PagelD: 33

C. Base Fine. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 8C2.4(a)(1) the base fine is
$150,000,000

d. Culpability Score. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 8C2.5, the culpability score is 6,
calculated as follows:

(a) Base Culpability Score 5

(b)(3) the organization had 200 or more

employees and an individual within

high-level personnel of the organization

participated in, condoned, or was willfully

ignorant of the offense +3

(g)(2) The organization fully cooperated in
the investigation and clearly demonstrated
recognition and affirmative acceptance of

 

responsibility for its criminal conduct -2
TOTAL
6
Calculation of Fine Range:
Base Fine $150,000,000
Multipliers 1.20(min)/2.40(max)
Fine Range $180,000,000/$360,000,000

The Company agrees to pay a total monetary penalty in the amount of $225,000,000 (the “Total
Criminal Fine”). The Total Criminal Fine will be paid to the United States Treasury within ten
business days of the execution of this Agreement. The Company, the Fraud Section, and the Office
agree that this penalty is appropriate given the facts and circumstances of this case, including the
Relevant Considerations described in Paragraph 4 of this Agreement. The Total Criminal Fine is
final and shall not be refunded. Furthermore, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed an
agreement by the Fraud Section and the Office that the Total Criminal Fine is the maximum penalty

that may be imposed in any future prosecution, and the Fraud Section and the Office are not

9
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 10 of 79 PagelD: 34

precluded from arguing in any future prosecution that the Court should impose a higher fine,
although the Fraud Section and the Office agree that under those circumstances, they will
recommend to the Court that any amount paid under this Agreement should be offset against any
fine the Court imposes as part of a future judgment. The Company acknowledges that no tax
deduction may be sought in connection with the payment of any part of the Total Criminal Fine.
The Company shall not seek or accept directly or indirectly reimbursement or indemnification
from any source with regard to the penalty or disgorgement amounts that the Company pays
pursuant to this Agreement or any other agreement entered into with an enforcement authority or
regulator, including the SEC, concerning the facts set forth in the attached Statement of Facts,
except that the Company may seek reimbursement and indemnification from its parent company,
Novartis AG. Novartis AG shall not seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source with regard to the penalty or disgorgement amounts that Novartis
AG pays, directly or indirectly, including through re1mbursement, to the Company, in association
with this Agreement or any other agreement entered into with an enforcement authority or
regulator, including the SEC, concerning the facts set forth in the attached Statement of Facts.
Novartis AG acknowledges that no tax deduction may be sought in connection with the payment,
reimbursement, or indemnification of any part of the Total Criminal Fine in connection with this
Agreement or the separate deferred prosecution agreement among the Fraud Section, the Office,
and Alcon Pte Ltd, dated on or about June 25, 2020.
Conditional Release from Liability
8. Subject to Paragraphs 14 to 18, the Fraud Section and the Office agree, except as

provided in this Agreement, that they will not bring any criminal or civil case against the Company,

10
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 11 of 79 PagelD: 35

Novartis AG, or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates, relating to any of the conduct described in
the Statement of Facts or the Information filed pursuant to this Agreement. The Fraud Section and
the Office, however, may use any information related to the conduct described in the Statement of
Facts against the Company, Novartis AG, or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates: (a) in a
prosecution for perjury or obstruction of justice; (b) in a prosecution for making a false statement;
(c) in a prosecution or other proceeding relating to any crime of violence; or (d) in a prosecution
or other proceeding relating to a violation of any provision of Title 26 of the United States Code.

a. This Agreement does not provide any protection against prosecution for any
future conduct by the Company, Novartis AG, or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates.

b. In addition, this Agreement does not provide any protection against
prosecution of any individuals, regardless of their affiliation with the Company, Novartis AG, or
any of their subsidiaries or affiliates.

Corporate Compliance Program
9. The Company and Novartis AG represent that they have implemented and will
continue to implement a compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations
of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws throughout their operations, including those
of their affiliates, agents, and joint ventures, and those of their contractors and subcontractors
whose responsibilities include interacting with foreign officials or other activities carrying a high
risk of corruption, including, but not limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C.
10. In order to address any deficiencies in their internal accounting controls, policies,
and procedures, the Company and Novartis AG represent that they have undertaken, and will

continue to undertake in the future, in a manner consistent with all of their obligations under this

1]
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 12 of 79 PagelD: 36

Agreement, a review of their existing internal accounting controls, policies, and procedures,
regarding compliance with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. Where necessary
and appropriate, the Company and Novartis AG agree to modify their existing compliance
programs, including internal controls, compliance policies, and procedures in order to ensure that
they maintain: (a) an effective system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure the
making and keeping of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-
corruption compliance program that incorporates relevant internal accounting controls, as well as
policies and procedures designed to effectively detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws. The compliance programs, including the internal accounting
controls systems, will include, but not be limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment
C.
Corporate Compliance Reporting

11. Novartis AG agrees that it will report to the Fraud Section and the Office annually
during the Term regarding remediation and implementation of the compliance measures described
in Attachment C. These reports will be prepared in accordance with Attachment D.

Deferred Prosecution

12. In consideration of the undertakings agreed to by the Company and Novartis AG
herein, the Fraud Section and the Office agree that any prosecution of the Company for the conduct
set forth in the attached Statement of Facts be and is hereby deferred for the Term. To the extent
that there is conduct disclosed by the Company or Novartis AG that is not set forth in the attached
Statement of Facts, such conduct will not be exempt from further prosecution and is not within the

scope of or relevant to this Agreement.

12
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 13 of 79 PagelD: 37

13. The Fraud Section and the Office further agree that if the Company and Novartis
AG fully comply with all of their obligations under this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the
Office will not continue the criminal prosecution against the Company described in Paragraph 1
and, at the conclusion of the Term, this Agreement shall expire. Within six months of the
Agreement’s expiration, the Fraud Section and the Office shall seek dismissal with prejudice of
the Information filed against the Company described in Paragraph 1, and agree not to file charges
in the future against the Company, Novartis AG, or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates based on
the conduct described in this Agreement and the attached Statement of Facts.

Breach of the Agreement

14. If, during the Term: (a) the Company commits any felony under U.S. federal law;
(b) the Company or Novartis AG provides in connection with this Agreement deliberately false,
incomplete, or misleading information, including in connection with its disclosure of information
about individual culpability; (c) the Company fails to cooperate as set forth in Paragraphs 5 and 6
of this Agreement; (d) the Company or Novartis AG fails to implement a compliance program as
set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Agreement and Attachment C; (e) the Company commits
any act that, had it occurred within the jurisdictional reach of the FCPA, would be a violation of
the FCPA; or (f) the Company or Novartis AG otherwise fails to completely perform or fulfill each
of the Company’s and Novartis AG’s obligations under the Agreement, regardless of whether the
Fraud Section and the Office become aware of such a breach after the Term is complete, the
Company, Novartis AG, and their subsidiaries and affiliates, shall thereafter be subject to
prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which the Fraud Section and the Office have

knowledge, including, but not limited to, the charges in the Information described in Paragraph 1,

13
~ a AS Ae ee PR PRK x :
Mace 2 oCLer AOS SR SPRAY Paciment |
Ne TAO A TA TA ee LAGE PER ng

which may be pursued by the Fraud Section and the Office in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey or any other appropriate venue. Determination of whether the Company
or Novartis AG has breached the Agreement and whether to pursue prosecution of the Company,
Novartis AG, or their subsidiaries or affiliates, shall be in the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s sole
discretion. Any such prosecution may be premised on information provided by the Company,
Novartis AG, their subsidiaries or affiliates, or their personnel. Any such prosecution relating to
the conduct described in the Statement of Facts or relating to conduct known to the Fraud Section
and the Office prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred by the
applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement may be commenced
against the Company, Novartis AG, or their subsidiaries or affiliates, notwithstanding the
expiration of the statute of limitations, between the signing of this Agreement and the expiration
of the Term plus one year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the Company and Novartis AG agree
that the statute of limitations with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-barred on the
date of the signing of this Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. In addition, the
Company agrees that the statute of limitations as to any violation of federal law that occurs during
the Term will be tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs until the earlier of the date
upon which the Fraud Section and the Office are made aware of the violation or the duration of
the Term plus five years, and that this period shall be excluded from any calculation of time for
purposes of the application of the statute of limitations.

15. In the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company or
Novartis AG has breached this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office agree to provide the

Company and Novartis AG with written notice of such breach prior to instituting any prosecution

14
~ a AS NX PA PAPEL? ~ — a ety CN RY ES
Pace Soler AR RRSP Pyacrmeant 2 Eniec i QAPERICO
Ne TAO A TA TA ee LARP PERI EL a my aa APRS Soe Ae

Lf
s,
i
beeath
Le
rw
a
vt
vd
4
2
r
eet

resulting from such breach. Within thirty days of receipt of such notice, the Company and Novartis
AG shall have the opportunity to respond to the Fraud Section and the Office in writing to explain
the nature and circumstances of such breach, as well as the actions the Company and Novartis AG
have taken to address and remediate the situation, which explanation the Fraud Section and the
Office shall consider in determining whether to pursue prosecution of the Company, Novartis AG,
or their subsidiaries or affiliates.

16. In the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company or
Novartis AG has breached this Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Company
Novartis AG, or their subsidiaries or affiliates to the Fraud Section and the Office or to the Court,
including the attached Statement of Facts, and any testimony given by the Company, Novartis AG,
or their subsidiaries or affiliates before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative
hearings, whether prior or subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads derived from such
statements or testimony, shall be admissible in evidence in any and all criminal proceedings
brought by the Fraud Section and the Office against the Company, Novartis AG, or their
subsidiaries or affiliates; and (b) the Company, Novartis AG, or their subsidiaries or affiliates shall
not assert any claim under the United States Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that any
such statements or testimony made by or on behalf of the Company, Novartis AG, or their
subsidiaries or affiliates prior or subsequent to this Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom,
should be suppressed or are otherwise inadmissible. The decision whether conduct or statements
of any current director, officer, or employee, or any person acting on behalf of, or at the direction

of, the Company, Novartis AG, or their subsidiaries or affiliates will be imputed to the Company

15
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 16 of 79 PagelD: 40

or Novartis AG for the purpose of determining whether the Company or Novartis AG has violated
any provision of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the Office.

17. The Company and Novartis AG acknowledge that the Fraud Section and the Office
have made no representations, assurances, or promises concerning what sentence may be imposed
by the Court if the Company or Novartis AG breaches this Agreement and this matter proceeds to
judgment. The Company and Novartis AG further acknowledge that any such sentence is solely
within the discretion of the Court and that nothing in this Agreement binds or restricts the Court
in the exercise of such discretion.

18. On the date that the period of deferred prosecution specified in this Agreement
expires, the Company, by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, will certify to the Fraud Section and the Office that the Company has met
its disclosure obligations pursuant to Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Agreement. Each certification
will be deemed a material statement and representation by the Company to the executive branch
of the United States for purposes of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1001 and 1519, and it
will be deemed to have been made in the judicial district in which this Agreement is filed.

Sale, Merger, or Other Change in Corporate Form of the Company

19. Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular
transaction, the Company and Novartis AG agree that in the event that, during the Term, the
Company or Novartis AG undertake any change in corporate form, including if it sells, merges, or
transfers business operations that are material to the Company’s or Novartis AG’s consolidated
operations, or to the operations of any subsidiaries or affiliates involved in the conduct described

in the attached Statement of Facts, as they exist as of the date of this Agreement, whether such

16
OR on TR PRENSA? PN ce moh Pese  Lf ewe fee ae
Mace 2 ole AOS SRS PRAL Pacument 2 Fuller! OBfESs/ek
Ne TAO A TA TA ee LARP PPS EL my Aa AAG Sad! €

change is structured as a sale, asset sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form, it
shall include in any contract for sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form a
provision binding the purchaser, or any successor in interest thereto, to the obligations described
in this Agreement. The purchaser or successor in interest must also agree in writing that the Fraud
Section’s and the Office’s ability to declare a breach under this Agreement is applicable in full
force to that entity. The Company and Novartis AG agree that the failure to include these
provisions in the transaction will make any such transaction null and void. The Company and
Novartis AG shall provide notice to the Fraud Section and the Office at least thirty days prior to
undertaking any such sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form. The Fraud Section
and the Office shall notify the Company and Novartis AG prior to such transaction (or series of
transactions) if they determine that the transaction(s) will have the effect of circumventing or
frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement. At any time during the Term the
Company or Novartis AG engages in a transaction(s) that has the effect of circumventing or
frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office may
deem it a breach of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraphs 14 to 18 of this Agreement. Nothing
herein shall restrict the Company or Novartis AG from indemnifying (or otherwise holding
harmless) the purchaser or successor in interest for penalties or other costs arising from any
conduct that may have occurred prior to the date of the transaction, so long as such indemnification
does not have the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this

Agreement, as determined by the Fraud Section and the Office.

17
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 18 of 79 PagelD: 42

Public Statements by the Company and Novartis AG

20. The Company and Novartis AG expressly agree that they shall not, through present
or future attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents or any other person authorized to speak
for the Company or Novartis AG, make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise,
contradicting the acceptance of responsibility by the Company or Novartis AG set forth above or
the facts described in the attached Statement of Facts. Any such contradictory statement shall,
subject to cure rights of the Company and Novartis AG described below, constitute a breach of
this Agreement, and the Company and/or Novartis AG thereafter shall be subject to prosecution
as set forth in Paragraphs 14 to 16 of this Agreement. The decision whether any public statement
by any such person contradicting a fact contained in the attached Statement of Facts will be
imputed to the Company and/or Novartis AG for the purpose of determining whether it has
breached this Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the Office. Ifthe
Fraud Section and the Office determine that a public statement by any such person contradicts in
whole or in part a statement contained in the attached Statement of Facts, the Fraud Section and
the Office shall so notify the Company and Novartis AG, and the Company and Novartis AG may
avoid a breach of this Agreement by publicly repudiating such statement(s) within five business
days after notification. The Company and Novartis AG shall be permitted to raise defenses and to
assert affirmative claims in other proceedings relating to the matters set forth in the attached
Statement of Facts provided that such defenses and claims do not contradict, in whole or in part, a
statement contained in the attached Statement of Facts. This Paragraph does not apply to any

statement made by any present or former officer, director, employee, or agent of the Company or

18
OR on TR PRENSA? PN cee peta ad SPE Per Pee
Mace 2 OoCLerAOSSR SPRAY Pyoacment 2 Fuert ORSER Ie!
Ke CRO Gl cL TA RLS eC LOU ERP EL my aa VAR ié

Novartis AG in the course of any criminal, regulatory, or civil case initiated against such
individual, unless such individual is speaking on behalf of the Company and/or Novartis AG.

21. The Company and Novartis AG agree that if they or any of their direct or indirect
subsidiaries or affiliates issue a press release or hold any press conference in connection with this
Agreement, the Company and Novartis AG shall first consult with the Fraud Section and the Office
to determine: (a) whether the text of the release or proposed statements at the press conference are
true and accurate with respect to matters between the Fraud Section, the Office, the Company, and
Novartis AG; and (b) whether the Fraud Section and the Office have any objection to the release
or statement.

22. The Fraud Section and the Office agree, if requested to do so, to bring to the
attention of law enforcement and regulatory authorities the facts and circumstances relating to the
nature of the conduct underlying this Agreement, including the nature and quality of the
Company’s and Novartis AG’s cooperation and remediation. By agreeing to provide this
information to such authorities, the Fraud Section and the Office are not agreeing to advocate on
behalf of the Company, Novartis AG, or their subsidiaries or affiliates, but rather are agreeing to
provide facts to be evaluated independently by such authorities. Nothing in this Agreement
restricts in any way the ability of the Fraud Section and the Office, any other federal department
or agency, or any state or local government, from proceeding criminally, civilly, or
administratively, against any current or former directors, officers, employees, or agents of the
Company, Novartis AG, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or against any other entities or individuals.
The parties to this Agreement intend that the Agreement does not confer or provide any benefits,

privileges, immunities, or rights to any other individual or entity other than the parties hereto.

19
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 20 of 79 PagelD: 44

Limitations on Binding Effect of the Agreement

23. This Agreement is binding on the Company, Novartis AG, the Fraud Section, and
the Office, but specifically does not bind any other component of the Department of Justice, other
federal agencies, or any state, local, or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, or any
other authorities, although the Fraud Section and the Office will bring the cooperation of the
Company and Novartis AG and their compliance with their other obligations under this Agreement
to the attention of such agencies and authorities if requested to do so by the Company or Novartis
AG.

Notice

24. Any notice to the Fraud Section and the Office under this Agreement shall be given
by personal delivery, overnight delivery by a recognized delivery service, or registered or certified
mail, addressed to Chief, FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S. Department of
Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, NW, 11th Floor, Washington, D.C. 20530, and Chief, Health
Care Fraud Unit, United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey, 970 Broad Street,
7th Floor, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Any notice to the Company and Novartis AG under this
Agreement shall be given by personal delivery, overnight delivery by a recognized delivery
service, or registered or certified mail, addressed to Novartis AG, Group General Counsel,
Novartis Campus / Asklepios 8.14, 4002 Basel, Switzerland; Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I., Office of
the President and CEO, Metamorphosis P.O. Box 144 51, 12th klm. National Road No. 1, Athens,
Greece; and Charles E. Duross, Morrison & Foerster LLP, 2000 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20006, or by electronic mail to those individuals or to other counsel or

individuals identified to the Fraud Section and the Office by the Company and/or Novartis AG.

20
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 21 of 79 PagelD: 45

Notice shall be effective upon actual receipt by the Fraud Section and the Office or the Company
and Novartis AG.
Complete Agreement
25. This Agreement, including its attachments, sets forth all the terms of the agreement
between the Company, Novartis AG, the Fraud Section, and the Office. No amendments,
modifications or additions to this Agreement shall be valid unless they are in writing and signed
by the Fraud Section and the Office, the attorneys for the Company and Novartis AG, and a duly

authorized representative of the Company and Novartis AG.

21
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 22 of 79 PagelD: 46

AGREED:

FOR NOVARTIS HELLAS S.A.C.L:

Date: C- 22 S{El CO? oO

Date: [os f 26a0

FOR NOVARTIS AG:

Date:

Date:

 

Date:

 

Zon y a of
wy: “LA Gttitce. LOAD
Susanne Kohout
Presideioeartié SS
3 ry

 

 

By:

By:

By:

22

Demme Doufekias
Morrison & Foerster LLP
Counsel for Novartis Hellas S.A.C.L.

 

Shannon Thyme Klinger
Group General Counsel

 

Harry Kirsch
Chief Financial Officer

 

Charles E. Duross
James M. Koukios
Demme Doufekias
Morrison & Foerster LLP
Counsel for Nevartis AG
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 23 of 79 PagelD: 47

AGREED:

FOR NOVARTIS HELLAS S.A.C.L:

Date; By:
Susanne Kohout
President and Chief Executive Officer
Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I.
Date: By:
Charles E. Duross
James M. Koukios
Demme Doufekias
Morrison & Foerster LLP
Counsel for Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I.
FOR NOVARTIS AG:
Date: 2> “MMe Zozo Bye so ee,

Shannon Thyme Klinger
Group General Counsel

Date: 23 fumacks de By: Lt Aes 7

Harry Kirsch
Chief Financial Officer

Date: Q/ 03/2000 LL

James M? ol
Demme Doufekias
Morrison & Foerster LLP
Counsel for Novartis AG

  
  

22
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW > Bocument2 Fuec 06/25/20 Page 24 of 7S Pagell: 48

FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE:

ROBERT A. ZINK

Chief, Fraud Section

Criminal Division

United States Department of Justice

 

 
 

 

Date: Ol2s [Zee pt Bok | Y
Della Sentilles |
Trial Attorney
CRAIG CARPENITO ;
United States Attorney vee
District of New Jersey _ )
Date: 6/ AS POF BY: i fe

Bernard J. Cé6ney
Senior Trial Counsel

Joshua L. Haber

Assistant United States Attorney

23

 
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 25 of 79 PagelD: 49

COMPANY OFFICER’S CERTIFICATE

L have read this Agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with outside counsel
for Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I. (the “Company”). I understand the terms of this Agreement and
voluntarily agree, on behalf of the Company, to each of its terms. Before signing this Agreement,
I consulted outside counsel for the Company. Counsel fully advised me of the rights of the
Company, of possible defenses, of the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the
consequences of entering into this Agreement.

[have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors of the
Company. I have caused outside counsel for the Company to advise the Board of Directors fully
of the rights of the Company, of possible defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines’ provisions, and
of the consequences of entering into the Agreement.

No promises or inducements have been made other than those contained in this Agreement.
Furthermore, no one has threatened or forced me, or to my knowledge any person authorizing this
Agreement on behalf of the Company, in any way to enter into this Agreement. Tam also satisfied
with outside counsel’s representation in this matter. I certify that 1 am the President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company and that I have been duly authorized by the Company to execute

this Agreement on behalf of the Company.

Date: 23 € O78 Novartis Hellas S.A.C.1.
C - /

Susanne Kohout
President and Chief Executive Officer

Novartis (Hellas) S.A.C.1.
Pharmaceutical company
12th kim. National Road No1
Metamorphosis P.O. Box 144 51
- Tax id: 094021290 / FAE Athens
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 26 of 79 PagelD: 50

CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL

I am counsel for Novartis Hellas S.A.C.1. (the “Company”) in the matter covered by this
Agreement. In connection with such representation, I have examined relevant Company
documents and have discussed the terms of this Agreement with the Company’s Board of
Directors. Based on our review of the foregoing materials and discussions, | am of the opinion
that the representative of the Company has been duly authorized to enter into this Agreement on
behalf of the Company and that this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed,
and delivered on behalf of the Company and is a valid and binding obligation of the Company.
Further, I have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors and the
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. I have fully advised them of the rights of
the Company, of possible defenses, of the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the
consequences of entering into this Agreement. To my knowledge, the decision of the Company to
enter into this Agreement, based on the authorization of the Board of Directors and a relevant
resolution of the Company’s General Shareholders Meeting, is an informed and voluntary one.

Date: June 23, 2020

sume 29, et

 

Counsel for Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I.

25
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 27 of 79 PagelD: 51

NOVARTIS AG OFFICER’S CERTIFICATE

I have read this Agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with outside counsel
for Novartis AG. I understand the terms of this Agreement and voluntarily agree, on behalf of
Novartis AG, to each of its terms. Before signing this Agreement, I consulted outside counsel for
Novartis AG. Counsel fully advised me of the rights of Novartis AG, of possible defenses, of the
provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the consequences of entering into this
Agreement.

I have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors of
Novartis AG. I have advised the Board of Directors fully of the rights of Novartis AG, of possible
defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines’ provisions, and of the consequences of entering into the
Agreement.

No promises or inducements have been made other than those contained in this Agreement.
Furthermore, no one has threatened or forced me, or to my knowledge any person authorizing this
Agreement on behalf of Novartis AG, in any way to enter into this Agreement. I am also satisfied
with outside counsel’s representation in this matter. I certify that I am the Group General Counsel
for Novartis and that, together with another authorized signatory, I am duly authorized by Novartis
AG to execute this Agreement on behalf of Novartis AG.

Date: 25 Since Z0z Novartis AG

By. = so > LE

“Shannon Thyme Klinger
Group General Counsel

26
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 28 of 79 PagelD: 52

CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL

I am counsel for Novartis AG in the matter covered by this Agreement. In connection with
such representation, I have examined relevant Novartis AG documents and have discussed the
terms of this Agreement with the Group General Counsel for Novartis. Based on our review of
the foregoing materials and discussions, and on my discussions with the Group General Counsel,
Lam of the opinion that the representatives of Novartis AG are duly authorized to enter into this
Agreement on behalf of Novartis AG and that this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized,
executed, and delivered on behalf of Novartis AG and is a valid and binding obligation of Novartis
AG. Further, I have fully advised the Group General Counsel of the rights of Novartis AG, of
possible defenses, of the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the consequences
of entering into this Agreement. To my knowledge, and based on my discussions with the Group
General Counsel, the decision of Novartis AG to enter into this Agreement, based on the

authorization of the Board of Directors, is an informed and voluntary one.

OOP temo

harles E. Detfass—

Morrison & Foerster LLP
Counsel for Novartis AG

Date: 6/93/se00

  

By;

27
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 29 of 79 PagelD: 53

ATTACHMENT A
STATEMENT OF FACTS

The following Statement of Facts is incorporated as part of the Deferred Prosecution
Agreement (the “Agreement”) between the United States Department of Justice, Criminal
Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”), the United States Attorney’s Office for the District
of New Jersey (the “Office”), and Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I. (“Novartis Hellas” or the “Company”).
The Company agrees and stipulates that the following facts and conclusions of U.S. law are true
and accurate. The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible for the acts
of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth below. Should the Fraud Section and
the Office pursue the prosecution that is deferred by this Agreement, the Company agrees that it
will neither contest the admissibility of, nor contradict, this Statement of Facts in any such
proceeding. The following facts took place during the relevant time period and establish beyond
a reasonable doubt the charges set forth in the Information attached to this Agreement:

Relevant Entities and Individuals

1. The Company was a Greek corporation headquartered in Athens, Greece and a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Novartis AG, a global pharmaceutical company based in Basel,
Switzerland. Among other lines of business, the Company sold and marketed Novartis-branded
prescription drugs in Greece. Novartis AG’s American Depository Shares were listed and traded
on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NVS.” Novartis AG was an issuer of publicly
traded securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and was
required to file periodic reports with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the

“SEC”) under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act. Thus, Novartis AG was an “issuer”

A-1
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 30 of 79 PagelD: 54

within the meaning of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1(a) and
78m(b). The Company’s books, records, and accounts were included in the consolidated financial
statements of Novartis AG filed with the SEC.

2. “Novartis Hellas Employee 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section and the Office, was a manager at the Company between in or about January 2011 and in
or about 2015.

3. “Novartis Hellas Employee 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section and the Office, held various positions at the Company between in or about 2012 and in or
about 2015.

The Greek Health Care System, Greek Entities, and Foreign Officials

4, Greece owned and operated state-owned and state-controlled hospitals and clinics,
and these hospitals and clinics performed a state function. Individuals employed by these hospitals
and clinics were “foreign officials” within the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

5. “Greek State-Owned Clinic,” an entity whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section and the Office, was a state-owned and state-controlled medical clinic located in Athens,
Greece that performed functions that Greece treated as its own, and thus was an instrumentality
within the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

6. “Greek HCP 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud Section and
the Office, was a health care provider (“HCP”), an employee of Greek State-Owned Clinic, and a

“foreign official” within the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

A-2
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 31 of 79 PagelD: 55

Overview of the Unlawful Schemes

7. During the relevant time periods set forth below, the Company, through its
employees and agents, knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed to corruptly provide
improper benefits and things of value to employees of state-owned and state-controlled hospitals
and clinics in Greece (“Greek State HCPs”) and other HCPs in Greece with the intent to obtain an
improper advantage and to increase sales of a certain Novartis-branded prescription drug in
Greece. Specifically, the Company sponsored Greek State HCPs to attend international congresses
as a means to bribe and corruptly influence the HCPs to increase prescriptions of Lucentis.!

8. During the relevant time periods set forth below, the Company, through its
employees and agents, also knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed to cause certain
payments to be falsely recorded in Novartis AG’s books, records, and accounts. Specifically, the
Company falsely recorded as legitimate advertising and promotion expenses: (a) corrupt payments
related to the international congresses described above; and (b) improper payments to HCPs related
to an epidemiological study intended to increase sales of certain Novartis-branded prescription
drugs. These records were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records and used to support
Novartis AG’s financial reporting to the SEC. As such, the Company, through its employees and
agents, caused these payments to be falsely recorded in Novartis AG’s books, records, and

accounts.

 

 Lucentis was a prescription drug sold by the Company in Greece that is approved for several
indications, including to treat adults with neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration.

A-3
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 32 of 79 PagelD: 56

9. During this time period, the Company recognized at least $71.48 USD million in
profits, as calculated for the purposes of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, from sales of Lucentis in
Greece and from sales of Novartis-branded prescription drugs related to the epidemiological study.

Details of the International Medical Congress Scheme

10. Between in or about 2012 and in or about 2015, the Company paid for public and
private ophthalmologists in Greece to attend international “medical congresses.” These congresses
were organized by various medical associations in the United States and Europe, and typically
took place over several days in a destination city in the United States or Europe.

11. By sponsoring Greek State HCPs to attend congresses, the Company paid for the
costs associated with that Greek State HCP’s attendance, such as airfare, hotel accommodations,
and congress registration fees. The Company typically paid for travel costs associated with
congresses through third-party travel agencies. For each individual Greek State HCP, the total
cost to the Company for attendance of an international congress often exceeded $6,000 USD.

12. The Company’s policies stated that the purpose for sending HCPs to congresses
was to provide scientific or educational information. In reality, however, sales employees at the
Company, including Novartis Hellas Employee 1, sometimes used international congresses to
improperly influence and induce Greek State HCPs to increase prescriptions for Lucentis.

13. As part of the scheme, the Company maintained internal documentation noting that
HCPs with the highest potential and highest propensity to prescribe Lucentis would receive
“investments,” such as sponsorships to attend international congresses, while HCPs with lower

potential and less propensity to prescribe Lucentis would receive no such “investments.”

A-4
oy = ye axe PRENPT AS SS PEAT PN cer eas ay eee ad PAP POET PO nee oye 7a ~
14. The use of congresses as a means to improperly influence and induce Greek State

HCPs to prescribe Lucentis was discussed and documented at the Company. For example, on or
about September 27, 2012, the Company’s Lucentis Brand Team held a meeting to discuss the
sales strategy for Greek State HCPs. Among other attendees, Novartis Hellas Employee | and
Novartis Hellas Employee 2 participated in the meeting. In the written minutes from this meeting
(the “Minutes”), a section entitled “Increase Pressure in [sic] HCPs” reflected the Company’s
intent to use specific international congress sponsorships to corruptly influence Greek State HCPs.
In particular, the Minutes stated that Greek State HCPs “must understand that their participation
in [specific congresses in the United States and Europe] will be cancelled if sales performance is
not improved significantly.”

15. The Minutes further explained that the Company’s message that it would withdraw
its international congress sponsorships based on poor Lucentis sales performance “must also be
discussed with [sales] REPs in the next Sales team [meeting]. REPs must make clear to their
[HCP] customers that Lucentis is facing real difficulties in the market and for this reason there will
be serious consequences.”

16. The Minutes referred to a certain U.S.-based ophthalmology association that
organized a congress in the U.S. (the “U.S. Academy”). Sales employees in the Company’s
ophthalmology business unit sent selected HCPs, including Greek State HCPs, to the U.S.
Academy’s congress, and employees of the Company traveled to the United States and, while
located in the United States, facilitated the attendance of the Greek State HCPs at the U.S.

Academy’s congress, as a method to corruptly influence the HCPs.
17. In or around January 2013, Novartis Hellas Employee 1 prepared a presentation

entitled “Action Plan KOLs” which detailed the various means through which Novartis Hellas
Employee 1 and others at the Company intended to target various “Top KOLs,” or Key Opinion
Leaders, in ophthalmology (the “Action Plans”).

18. One such Action Plan targeted Greek HCP 1, who worked at the Greek State-
Owned Clinic. The Action Plan set forth how Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at the
Company intended to use certain “actions”—including sponsorship to U.S. congresses—to induce
Greek HCP | to prescribe Lucentis. The “Target” was to “increase” Greek HCP 1’s “loyalty” to
the Company and “chan[ge] [HCP 1’s] mindset about cooperation.” As described in the Action
Plan’s “Strategy-Actions” section, Novartis Hellas Employee | and others at the Company sought
to achieve this objective through, among other “actions,” “tak[ing] advantage of [the U.S.
Academy’s]| congresses.”

19. The Action Plan further stated that Novartis Hellas Employee | and others at the
Company should convey the following message to Greek HCP 1: “to get you must write. No
presents anymore.”

20. The Action Plan indicated that Novartis Hellas Employee 1 would “ASK HIM
ALL,” meaning that the goal was to capture 100% of Greek HCP 1’s ophthalmology prescriptions
for which Lucentis could be prescribed.

21. In or about late 2013, employees of the Company traveled to the United States and,
while located in the United States, facilitated the attendance of Greek HCP | and others at the U.S.

Academy’s congress in New Orleans, Louisiana.

A-6
~ a AS aN ee
Mace 2:Of.er fs
Ma CAO A TA TA ed

oe,
re
Neg

22. In addition to Greek HCP 1, an Action Plan written by Novartis Hellas Employee
1 stated that the Company’s ophthalmology business unit would “[l]ower investment [in another
Greek State HCP] as a penalty for [Lucentis injection] loss” while making their “motive (large
investment)” visible to the HCP. To generate increased Lucentis prescriptions from one particular
Greek State HCP, another Action Plan written by Novartis Hellas Employee 1 stated that the
“Implementation Plan” consisted of specific European congresses and the U.S. Academy’s
congress along with a reference to “5500 grand [sic] for congress.”

23. In or about 2013, certain employees in the Company’s ophthalmology business unit
developed a plan that outlined the various “activities” they intended to use to influence HCPs at a
public hospital’s ophthalmology clinic (the “Greek Hospital Clinic’). These activities included
“Participation in Congress (4x INTL, 10x National).”

24. In or about 2014, Novartis Hellas Employee | and another manager at the Company
wrote a basketball-themed written presentation for the Company’s Lucentis brand team (the
Presentation”). The Presentation addressed how the Company’s Lucentis brand team should
approach Greek State HCPs who preferred a competitor company’s product and who raised certain
“defenses” against using Lucentis. Among other “defenses,” these HCPs indicated that the
competitor company’s products were the preferred choice to treat age-related macular
degeneration and were less expensive. The Presentation described how the Company intended to
overcome these “defenses” through the use of improper inducements to “convert” Greek State
HCPs to prescribing Lucentis.

25. One “defense,” which was described against the backdrop of an image of a world

famous basketball player’s face on a dollar bill, stated (as translated): “[the competitor company |

A-7
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 36 of 79 PagelD: 60

has a large budget to invest ‘they told me, whatever you want.’” The competitor company’s
strategy, as indicted in the Presentation, included sending Greek State HCPs to U.S. congresses.

26. The Presentation further explained how the Company sought to “dissolve” this
“defense” through, among other things, sending targeted Greek State HCPs to ophthalmology
congresses in Europe and the United States. This included sending ten HCPs to the U.S.
Academy’s congress at a cost of 67,000 euros (equivalent to then approximately $89,000 USD).

27. The Company, through its employees and agents, falsely recorded the corrupt
payments associated with congress sponsorships as legitimate advertising and promotion expenses
in the Company’s internal accounting records. By recording these payments as advertising and
promotion expenses, the Company concealed their true and corrupt nature. These false records
were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records and used to support Novartis AG’s
financial reporting to the SEC. As such, the Company, through its employees and agents,
knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed with others to cause the corrupt payments to be
falsely recorded as legitimate expenses in Novartis AG’s books, records, and accounts.

Details of the Clinical Trial Scheme

Background on Clinical Trials at the Company

28. | The Company was not responsible for Phase I, II, or III clinical trials, which relate
to different phases of the process leading from a drug’s discovery to government approval.
However, the Company sponsored post-approval clinical trials, known as Phase IV studies and
epidemiological studies, both of which were research studies intended to answer scientific

questions related to medical conditions treated by Novartis-branded prescription drugs. In this

A-8
oy = ~e QPP A ROR AP e oe = poets Soy Pe Ee ee pee
Mace 2 ole AOS SRS PRAL Pacument 2 Fuller! OBfESs/ek
Ne TAO A TA TA ee LAP Pa PUOPTAD Aa APY clad

a
pel
a
od
a
ened
6
yy
2
ro
ao
ae

role, and depending on the study, the Company selected Greek public and private HCPs to gather
patient data for the studies.

29. Phase IV studies and epidemiological studies were designed to inform medical and
clinical decisions, not to increase sales. As set forth below, however, the Company made improper
payments to HCPs related to an epidemiological study intended to increase sales of certain
Novartis-branded prescription drugs.

The EXACTLY Study

30. In or about 2008, employees of the Company responsible for marketing Novartis-
branded hypertension prescription drugs developed a marketing project named “EXACTLY.” The
brand managers prepared a written “Project Summary” for EXACTLY dated November 19, 2008
(the “Project Summary”). According to the Project Summary, the Company planned to provide
HCPs with free blood pressure manometers and the HCPs would provide the Company with
information related to their patients, including uncontrolled or newly diagnosed patients with
hypertension. Through EXACTLY, the Company sought to increase sales of Novartis-branded
hypertension prescription drugs.

31. The Project Summary described including over 2,200 HCPs who, in turn, treated
over 44,000 patients. With an anticipated return on investment (“ROI”) of 3.04, the planned
investment of over 2.8 million euros (equivalent to then approximately $3.8 million USD) in
payments to HCPs through EXACTLY was expected to yield sales of over 8.6 million euros (the
equivalent to then approximately $11.9 million USD). This projected ROI, the Project Summary

explained, included over 16,000 “newly diagnosed or uncontrolled patients.”

A-9
pro, = oy SO OPE RT Ne ~ _ em, so pees Lo Pe Ee
Mace 2 ole AOS SRS PRAL Pacument 2 Fuller! OBfESs/ek
Ne TAO A TA TA ee EAA PER Gn a PRINS AA Askar cae €

oe,
4
Neg

32. On or about November 19, 2008, the Project Summary for EXACTLY was
submitted to the Company’s Country Compliance Board (“CCB”) for internal approval. As
reflected in the CCB’s Program Review Meeting Minutes from on or about November 19, 2008,
the CCB deemed EXACTLY to be “of high value,” but decided that all or part of the project should
be converted to a “Scientific Investigation.” The CCB made this decision, in part, because
EXACTLY involved collecting patient data and would thus require approval from the Greek
government’s National Organization for Medicines (Ethnikos Organismos Farmakon) (the “Greek
EOF”).

33. The Company accordingly redesigned a portion of EXACTLY as an
epidemiological investigational study designed “to evaluate the percentage of uncontrolled
hypertensive patients” in Greece. Instead of providing free manometers to HCPs, the
investigational study version of EXACTLY entailed the Company paying participating HCPs
directly. Participating HCPs were responsible for gathering patient data and completing case
report forms to record data for each enrolled patient.

34. In or about February 2009, the Greek EOF approved EXACTLY as an
investigational study.

35. From in or about April 2009 through in or about December 2009, the Company and
HCPs conducted the EXACTLY study which was designed to target over 2,200 HCPs and over
44.000 patients.

36. Ultimately, the Company, through its employees and agents, made improper

payments to HCPs.

A-10
37. Many of the forms that were submitted contained mistakes and inconsistencies,

including forms that failed to indicate whether the patient suffered from coronary disease, which
is strongly linked to hypertension — the core purported focus of EXACTLY.

38. |The Company’s employees also recognized that many HCPs believed that they
were paid in exchange for writing prescriptions for Novartis-branded hypertension prescription
drugs and not for providing data as part of a clinical study. Specifically, on or about April 15,
2010, the Company held an internal meeting for brand managers and other personnel involved
with EXACTLY “to summarize the learnings and identify next steps” (the “EXACTLY Debrief’).
During the EXACTLY Debrief, which the Company audio recorded, regarding payments that
HCPs received related to EXACTLY, a number of employees and managers acknowledged the
following:

e A Company manager stated that (as translated): “[A]lthough the microphone is

recording .. . you all know this very well, I just repeat, that the doctor believes that
he/she participates in a study [EXACTLY] and gets paid for what he prescribes in

reality and not for what he/she writes in the study. . . Consequently, the doctor’s
impression was that they participate just so that they get paid for what they prescribe.”

e A Company sales manager stated (as translated): “[T]he main issue is . . . that the
doctors believe that the study was conducted in order to get paid for what they write,
right?”

e A Company medical manager stated (as translated) that a clinical study “is a part of the
marketing mix; we do not disagree that this is a type of benefit provided to the doctors.
They know that they will get paid, this 1s what happens in reality.”

e A Company brand manager stated that (as translated): “To be honest, the studies were
conducted in a similar way in the past as well; they were conducted as marketing
projects. That’s within quotation marks. Between us.”

39. The Company, through its employees and agents, falsely recorded these payments

related to EXACTLY as advertising and promotion expenses in the Company’s internal accounting

A-11
ON oy oe ri SENET 3 SPINA és ant Pils ad Maren AM Af VR Mawel? a A

{Ase oP. if ity = os SIPS ‘ POAC LIOMT RTO i SPIO ALP AY gb Ram cais * awae

ee DA Ga Nt a ead LP WO aa AP, Pt ae POPS ua Po PAMAS TAS LE Fw CARS Le De Se
Nels Bee

 

records. By doing so, the Company concealed their true and improper nature. These false records
were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records and were used to support Novartis AG’s
financial reporting to the SEC. As such, the Company, through its employees and agents,
knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed with others to cause the payments related to
EXACTLY to be falsely recorded as legitimate expenses in Novartis AG’s books, records, and

accounts.

A-12
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 41 of 79 PagelD: 65

ATTACHMENT B

CERTIFIED MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FOR NOVARTIS HELLAS S.A.C.L

WHEREAS, Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I. (the “Company”) has been engaged in discussions
with the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud
Section”) and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (the “Office”)
regarding issues arising in relation to improper payments made in connection with providing
benefits and things of value to health care providers (“HCPs’”) in Greece, including HCPs
employed by Greek public institutions, and the falsification of books, records, and accounts to
conceal those improper payments, benefits, and things of value; and

WHEREAS, in order to resolve such discussions, it is proposed that the Company enter
into a certain agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office in accordance with the relevant
resolution of the General Shareholders; and

WHEREAS, the Company’s inside counsel, together with outside counsel for the
Company, has advised the Board of Directors of the Company of its rights, possible defenses, the
provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and the consequences of entering into such
agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office;

Therefore, the Board of Directors has RESOLVED that:

1. The Company: (a) acknowledges the filing of the Information charging the
Company with one count of conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States, in violation
of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is, to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), as amended, Title 15, United States Code,

Section 78dd-3, and one count of conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States, in

B-1
~ a AS aN ee
Mace 2:Of.er fs
Ma CAO A TA TA ed

violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is, to violate the books and records
provision of the FCPA, as amended, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(A),
78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a); (b) waives indictment on such charges and enters into a deferred
prosecution agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office (the “Agreement”); and (c) agrees to
accept a monetary penalty against the Company with respect to the conduct described in the
Information totaling $225,000,000, and to pay such penalty to the United States Treasury within
ten business days of the execution of the Agreement;

2. The Company accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but
not limited to: (a) a knowing waiver of its rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth Amendment
to the United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161, and Federal Rule of
Criminal Procedure 48(b); (b) a knowing waiver for purposes of this Agreement and any charges
by the United States arising out of the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts of any
objection with respect to venue and consents to the filing of the Information, as provided under
the terms of this Agreement, in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey; and
(c) a knowing waiver of any defenses based on the statute of limitations for any prosecution
relating to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts, or relating to conduct known
to the Fraud Section and the Office prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed, that is
not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement;

3. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Susanne Kohout, is
hereby authorized, empowered, and directed, on behalf of the Company, to execute the Agreement
substantially in such form as reviewed by this Board of Directors at this meeting with such changes

as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company may approve;

B-2
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 43 of 79 PagelD: 67

4. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Susanne Kohout, is
hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to take any and all actions as may be necessary or
appropriate and to approve the forms, terms or provisions of any agreement or other documents as
may be necessary or appropriate, to carry out and effectuate the purpose and intent of the foregoing
resolutions; and

5. All of the actions of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
Susanne Kohout, which would have been authorized by the foregoing resolutions except that such
actions were taken prior to the adoption of such resolutions, are hereby severally ratified,

confirmed, approved, and adopted as actions on behalf of the Company.

a |

223 [6 (COZO sf
i wy AM (eh
Susanne Kohout

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Novartis Hellas $.A.C.1.

 

i ls
wovartis (Hellas) S.A.C
Pharmaceutical company
42th kim. National Road Not ;
Metamo' P.O. Box 144 5
Tax id: 094021290 | FAE Athens
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 44 of 79 PagelD: 68

CERTIFICATE OF CORPORATE RESOLUTIONS FOR NOVARTIS AG

WHEREAS, Novartis AG has been engaged in discussions with the United States
Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”) and the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (the “Office”) regarding issues arising in
relation to improper payments made in connection with providing benefits and things of value to
health care providers (“HCPs”) in Greece, including HCPs employed by Greek public institutions,
and the falsification of books, records, and accounts to conceal those improper payments, benefits,
and things of value; and

WHEREAS, in order to resolve such discussions, it is proposed that Novartis AG (on
behalf of itself and its subsidiaries and affiliates) agrees to certain terms and obligations of a
deferred prosecution agreement among Novartis Hellas S.A.C.I. (“Novartis Hellas’), the Fraud
Section, and the Office (the “Agreement’”); and

WHEREAS, the Group General Counsel for Novartis, Shannon Thyme Klinger, has
advised the Board of Directors of Novartis AG of its rights, possible defenses, the Sentencing
Guidelines’ provisions, and the consequences of agreeing to such terms and obligations of the
Agreement among Novartis Hellas, the Fraud Section, and the Office;

Therefore, the Board of Directors has RESOLVED that:

1. Novartis AG: (a) acknowledges the filing of the Information against its subsidiary,
Novartis Hellas, charging Novartis Hellas with one count of conspiracy to commit an offense
against the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is, to
violate the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), as

amended, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-3, and one count of conspiracy to commit an

B-4
~ a AS aN ee
Mace 2:Of.er fs
Ma CAO A TA TA ed

offense against the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is,
to violate the books and records provision of the FCPA, as amended, Title 15, United States Code,
Sections 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a); (b) undertakes certain obligations under the
Agreement among Novartis Hellas, the Fraud Section, and the Office; and (c) agrees to accept a
monetary penalty against Novartis Hellas totaling $225,000,000, and to pay such penalty to the
United States Treasury with respect to the conduct described in the Information if Novartis Hellas
does not pay such monetary penalty within the time period specified in the Agreement;

2. Novartis AG accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but
not limited to: (a) a knowing waiver of Novartis Hellas’ right to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth
Amendment to the United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161, and
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b); (b) a knowing waiver for purposes of this Agreement
and any charges by the United States arising out of the conduct described in the attached Statement
of Facts of any objection with respect to venue and consents to the filing of the Information against
Novartis Hellas, as provided under the terms of this Agreement, in the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey; and (c) a knowing waiver of any defenses based on the statute of
limitations for any prosecution relating to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts,
or relating to conduct known to the Fraud Section and the Office prior to the date on which this
Agreement was signed, that is not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the date
of the signing of this Agreement;

3. The Group General Counsel for Novartis, Shannon Thyme Klinger, together with
another authorized signatory, are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed, on behalf of

Novartis AG and its subsidiaries and affiliates, to agree to certain terms and obligations of the

B-5
Agreement substantially in such form as reviewed by this Board of Directors at this meeting with
such changes as the Group General Counsel, together with another authorized signatory, may
approve;

4. The Group General Counsel for Novartis, Shannon Thyme Klinger, together with
another authorized signatory, are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to take any and all
actions as may be necessary or appropriate and to approve the forms, terms or provisions of any
agreement or other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and intent of the foregoing resolutions; and

5. All of the actions of the Group General Counsel for Novartis, Shannon Thyme
Klinger, together with another authorized signatory, which would have been authorized by the
foregoing resolutions except that such actions were taken prior to the adoption of such resolutions,
are hereby severally ratified, confirmed, approved, and adopted as actions on behalf of Novartis

AG and its subsidiaries and affiliates.

pac AS June odo) Qualarda

Joeye Reinhardt
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Novartis AG

 

B-6
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 47 of 79 PagelD: 71

ATTACHMENT C
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

In order to address any deficiencies in its internal controls, compliance code, policies, and
procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (““FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. §§
78dd-1, et seg., and other applicable anti-corruption laws, Novartis AG, on behalf of itself and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, agrees to continue to conduct, in a manner consistent with all of its
obligations under this Agreement, appropriate reviews of its existing internal controls, policies,
and procedures.

Where necessary and appropriate, Novartis AG agrees to adopt new, or to modify its
existing compliance programs, including internal controls, compliance policies, and procedures in
order to ensure that 1t maintains: (a) an effective system of internal accounting controls designed
to ensure the making and keeping of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a
rigorous anti-corruption compliance program that incorporates relevant internal accounting
controls, as well as policies and procedures designed to effectively detect and deter violations of
the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. At a minimum, this should include, but not
be limited to, the following elements to the extent they are not already part of Novartis AG’s
existing internal controls, compliance code, policies, and procedures:

High-Level Commitment

1. Novartis AG will ensure that its directors and senior management provide strong,

explicit, and visible support and commitment to its corporate policy against violations of the anti-

corruption laws and its compliance codes.

C-]
Mace 2 oC er AOSSR SPRAY Pyacment 2 Fler ORSPSRS/AQ Bane AS af 7O Panell: 72
Ne CRO TAL TR LP LAP PRR Ek ms Ma ASS a ae PU CRMARS Sea Lab of oF wh hae. €
Y

Policies and Procedures

2. Novartis AG will develop and promulgate a clearly articulated and visible
corporate policy against violations of the FCPA and other applicable foreign law counterparts
(collectively, the “anti-corruption laws”), which policy shall be memorialized in a written
compliance code or codes.

3. Novartis AG will develop and promulgate compliance policies and procedures
designed to reduce the prospect of violations of the anti-corruption laws and Novartis AG’s
compliance code, and Novartis AG will take appropriate measures to encourage and support the
observance of ethics and compliance policies and procedures against violation of the anti-
corruption laws by personnel at all levels of Novartis AG. These anti-corruption policies and
procedures shall apply to all directors, officers, and employees and, where necessary and
appropriate, outside parties acting on behalf of Novartis AG in a foreign jurisdiction, including,
but not limited to, agents and intermediaries, consultants, representatives, distributors, teaming
partners, contractors and suppliers, consortia, and joint venture partners (collectively, “agents and
business partners”). Novartis AG shall notify all employees that compliance with the policies and

procedures is the duty of individuals at all levels of Novartis AG. Such policies and procedures

shall address:
a. gifts;
b. hospitality, entertainment, and expenses;
C. customer travel;
d. political contributions;
e. charitable donations and sponsorships;

C-2
¥
Z
tf
fr
3
wv
J
et!
wo
?
s
rare
A
Ay
nD
m
iy
Lee
wn
en
7
2
"y
be
a
cat
ore

 

f. facilitation payments; and
g. solicitation and extortion.
4, Novartis AG will ensure that it has a system of financial and accounting

procedures, including a system of internal controls, reasonably designed to ensure the maintenance
of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts. This system shall be designed to provide
reasonable assurances that:

a. transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or
specific authorization;

b. transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;

C. access to assets 1s permitted only in accordance with management’s general
or specific authorization; and

d. the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets
at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

Periodic Risk-Based Review
5. Novartis AG will develop these compliance policies and procedures on the basis
of a periodic risk assessment addressing the individual circumstances of Novartis AG, in particular
the foreign bribery risks facing Novartis AG, including, but not limited to, its geographical
organization, interactions with various types and levels of government officials, industrial sectors

of operation, involvement in joint venture arrangements, importance of licenses and permits in

C-3
¥
Z
tf
r
3
Pd
ao
tt
a
,
»
rare
wa
sai
a
nd
recom
feet
ors
Lee
ae
en
?
!
"y
bo
ae
i
rae

 

Novartis AG’s operations, degree of governmental oversight and inspection, and volume and
importance of goods and personnel clearing through customs and immigration.

6. Novartis AG shall review its anti-corruption compliance policies and procedures
no less than annually and update them as appropriate to ensure their continued effectiveness, taking
into account relevant developments in the field and evolving international and industry standards.

Proper Oversight and Independence

7. Novartis AG will assign responsibility to one or more senior corporate executives
of Novartis AG for the implementation and oversight of Novartis AG’s anti-corruption compliance
code, policies, and procedures. Such corporate official(s) shall have the authority to report directly
to independent monitoring bodies, including internal audit, Novartis AG’s Board of Directors, or
any appropriate committee of the Board of Directors, and shall have an adequate level of autonomy
from management as well as sufficient resources and authority to maintain such autonomy.

Training and Guidance

8. Novartis AG will implement mechanisms designed to ensure that its anti-
corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures are effectively communicated to all
directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners.
These mechanisms shall include: (a) periodic training for all directors and officers, all employees
in positions of leadership or trust, positions that require such training (e.g., internal audit, sales,
legal, compliance, finance), or positions that otherwise pose a corruption risk to Novartis AG, and,
where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners; and (b) corresponding
certifications by all such directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners, certifying

compliance with the training requirements.

C-4
¥
Z
tf
fr
3
wv
J
et!
wo
?
s
rare
A
Ay
nD
recom
feet
iy
Lee
wn
en
7
2
"y
be
a
cat
ore

 

9. Novartis AG will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
providing guidance and advice to directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and
appropriate, agents and business partners, on complying with Novartis AG’s anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures, including when they need advice on an urgent basis or
in any foreign jurisdiction in which Novartis AG operates.

Internal Reporting and Investigation

10. = Novartis AG will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
internal and, where possible, confidential reporting by, and protection of, directors, officers,
employees, and, where appropriate, agents and business partners concerning violations of the anti-
corruption laws or Novartis AG’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures.

11. Novartis AG will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective and reliable
process with sufficient resources for responding to, investigating, and documenting allegations of
violations of the anti-corruption laws or Novartis AG’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies,
and procedures.

Enforcement and Discipline

12. Novartis AG will implement mechanisms designed to effectively enforce its
compliance code, policies, and procedures, including appropriately incentivizing compliance and
disciplining violations.

13. Novartis AG will institute appropriate disciplinary procedures to address, among
other things, violations of the anti-corruption laws and Novartis AG’s anti-corruption compliance
code, policies, and procedures by Novartis AG’s directors, officers, and employees. Such

procedures should be applied consistently and fairly, regardless of the position held by, or

C-5
¥
Z
tf
fr
3
wv
J
et!
wo
?
s
rare
A
Ay
nD
recom
feet
iy
Lee
wn
en
7
2
"y
be
a
cat
ore

 

perceived importance of, the director, officer, or employee. Novartis AG shall implement
procedures to ensure that where misconduct is discovered, reasonable steps are taken to remedy
the harm resulting from such misconduct, and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to prevent
further similar misconduct, including assessing the internal controls, compliance code, policies,
and procedures and making modifications necessary to ensure the overall anti-corruption
compliance program is effective.

Third-Party Relationships

14. Novartis AG will institute appropriate risk-based due diligence and compliance
requirements pertaining to the retention and oversight of all agents and business partners,
including:

a. properly documented due diligence pertaining to the hiring and appropriate
and regular oversight of agents and business partners;

b. informing agents and business partners of Novartis AG’s commitment to
abiding by anti-corruption laws, and of Novartis AG’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies,
and procedures; and

C. seeking a reciprocal commitment from agents and business partners.

15. Where necessary and appropriate, Novartis AG will include standard provisions in
agreements, contracts, and renewals thereof with all agents and business partners that are
reasonably calculated to prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws, which may, depending
upon the circumstances, include: (a) anti-corruption representations and undertakings relating to
compliance with the anti-corruption laws; (b) rights to conduct audits of the books, records, and

accounts of the agent or business partner to ensure compliance with the foregoing; and (c) rights

C-6
¥
Z
tf
fr
3
wv
J
et!
wo
?
s
rare
A
Ay
nD
m
iy
Lee
wn
en
7
2
"y
be
a
cat
ore

 

to terminate an agent or business partner as a result of any breach of the anti-corruption laws,
Novartis AG’s compliance code, policies, or procedures, or the representations and undertakings
related to such matters.

Mergers and Acquisitions

16. Novartis AG will develop and implement policies and procedures for mergers and
acquisitions requiring that Novartis AG conduct appropriate risk-based due diligence on potential
new business entities, including appropriate FCPA and anti-corruption due diligence by legal,
accounting, and compliance personnel.

17. Novartis AG will ensure that Novartis AG’s compliance code, policies, and
procedures regarding the anti-corruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to newly acquired
businesses or entities merged with Novartis AG and will promptly:

a. train the directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners
consistent with Paragraph 8 above on the anti-corruption laws and Novartis AG’s compliance
code, policies, and procedures regarding anti-corruption laws; and

b. where warranted, conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly acquired or
merged businesses as quickly as practicable.

Monitoring and Testing

18. Novartis AG will conduct periodic reviews and testing of its anti-corruption
compliance codes, policies, and procedures designed to evaluate and improve their effectiveness
in preventing and detecting violations of anti-corruption laws and Novartis AG’s anti-corruption
codes, policies, and procedures, taking into account relevant developments in the field and

evolving international and industry standards.

C-7
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 54 of 79 PagelD: 78

ATTACHMENT D

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Novartis AG agrees that it will report to the Fraud Section and the Office periodically, at
no less than twelve-month intervals during a three-year term, regarding remediation and
implementation of the compliance program and internal controls, policies, and procedures
described in Attachment C. During this three-year period, Novartis AG shall: (1) conduct an initial
review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare at least two follow-up reviews and
reports, as described below:
a. By no later than one year from the date this Agreement is executed, Novartis
AG shall submit to the Fraud Section and the Office a written report setting forth a complete
description of its remediation efforts to date, its proposals reasonably designed to improve Novartis
AG’s internal controls, policies, and procedures for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws, and the proposed scope of the subsequent reviews. The report
shall be transmitted to Chief, FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S. Department of
Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, NW, Bond Building, 11th Floor, Washington, D.C. 20530 and
Chief, Health Care Fraud Unit, United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey, 970
Broad Street, 7th Floor, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Novartis AG may extend the time period for
issuance of the report with prior written approval of the Fraud Section and the Office.
b. Novartis AG shall undertake at least two follow-up reviews and reports,
incorporating the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s views on Novartis AG’s prior reviews and

reports, to further monitor and assess whether Novartis AG’s policies and procedures are

D-1
ey TOR ae SAE MO ria? PNaaesaenaemnt 3 Mite ed em oer fee
Mace 2 OoCLerAOSSR SPRAY Pyoacment 2 Fuert ORSER Ie!
Ne TAO A TA TA ee iL ORAPP RIEL my A AAG Sad! €

reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-
corruption laws.

C. The first follow-up review and report shall be completed by no later than
one year after the initial report is submitted to the Fraud Section and the Office. The second
follow-up review and report shall be completed and delivered to the Fraud Section and the Office
no later than thirty days before the end of the Term.

d. The reports will likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and
competitive business information. Moreover, public disclosure of the reports could discourage
cooperation, impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the
objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the
contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except as otherwise agreed to
by the parties in writing, or except to the extent that the Fraud Section and the Office determine in
their sole discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s
discharge of their duties and responsibilities or is otherwise required by law.

e. Novartis AG may extend the time period for submission of any of the follow-

up reports with prior written approval of the Fraud Section and the Office.
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 56 of 79 PagelD: 80

2017R00136/BJC/JLH

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : Criminal No. 20-538
v. : 18 US.C. § 371

NOVARTIS HELLAS 8.A.C.I.

INFORMATION

The United States charges that, at all times relevant to this Information,

unless otherwise specified:

GENERAL ALLEGATIONS
Relevant Statutory Background

1. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, 15
U'S.C. §§ 78dd-1, et seq. (the “FCPA”), was enacted by Congress for the purpose
of, among other things, making it unlawful to act corruptly in furtherance of an
offer, promise, authorization, or payment of money or anything of value, directly
or indirectly, to a foreign official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business
for, or directing business to, any person. In addition, the FCPA’s accounting
provisions, among other things, require every issuer of publicly traded securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15
US.C. § 781, or required to file periodic reports with the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act, 15 U.S.C § 780(d), to make and keep books, records, and accounts that

accurately and fairly reflect transactions and the distribution of the company’s
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 57 of 79 PagelD: 81

assets, and prohibit the knowing and willful falsification of an issuer’s books,
records, or accounts. 15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a).

NOVARTIS HELLAS and Other Relevant Entities and Individuals

 

2. Defendant Novartis Hellas $.A.C.I. (“NOVARTIS HELLAS’)
was a Greek corporation headquartered in Athens, Greece and a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Novartis AG, a global pharmaceutical company based in Basel,
Switzerland. Among other lines of business, NOVARTIS HELLAS sold and
marketed Novartis-branded prescription drugs in Greece. Novartis AG’s
American Depository Shares were listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol “NVS.” Novartis AG was an issuer of publicly traded
securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and
was required to file periodic reports with the SEC under Section 13 of the
Securities Exchange Act. Thus, Novartis AG was an “issuer” within the meaning
of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1(a) and 78m(b). NOVARTIS HELLAS’s books,
records, and accounts were included in the consolidated financial statements of
Novartis AG filed with the SEC.

3. “Novartis Hellas Employee 1,” an individual whose identity is
known to the United States, was a manager at NOVARTIS HELLAS between in
or about January 2011 and in or about 2015.

4. “Novartis Hellas Employee 2,” an individual whose identity is
known to the United States, held various positions at NOVARTIS HELLAS

between in or about 2012 and in or about 2015.
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 58 of 79 PagelD: 82

The Greek Health Care System, Greek Entities, and Foreign Officials

 

5. Greece owned and operated state-owned and state-controlled
hospitals and clinics, and these hospitals and clinics performed a state function.
Individuals employed by these hospitals and clinics were “foreign officials” within
the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

6. “Greek State-Owned Clinic,” an entity whose identity is
known to the United States, was a state-owned and state-controlled medical clinic
located in Athens, Greece that performed functions that Greece treated as its own,
and thus was an instrumentality within the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. §
78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

7. “Greek HCP 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the
United States, was a health care provider (“HCP”), an employee of Greek State-
Owned Clinic, and a “foreign official” within the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C.
§ 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

Overview of the Unlawful Schemes

 

8. During the relevant time periods set forth below, NOVARTIS
HELLAS, through its employees and agents, knowingly and willfully conspired
and agreed to corruptly provide improper benefits and things of value to
employees of state-owned and state-controlled hospitals and clinics in Greece
(“Greek State HCPs”) and other HCPs in Greece with the intent to obtain an
improper advantage and to increase sales of a certain Novartis-branded

prescription drug in Greece. Specifically, NOVARTIS HELLAS sponsored Greek
3
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 59 of 79 PagelD: 83

State HCPs to attend international congresses as a means to bribe and corruptly
influence the HCPs to increase prescriptions of Lucentis.!

9. During the relevant time periods set forth below, NOVARTIS
HELLAS, through its employees and agents, also knowingly and willfully
conspired and agreed to cause certain payments to be falsely recorded in Novartis
AG’s books, records, and accounts. Specifically, NOVARTIS HELLAS falsely
recorded as legitimate advertising and promotion expenses: (a) corrupt payments
related to the international congresses described above; and (b) improper
payments to HCPs related to an epidemiological study intended to increase sales
of certain Novartis-branded prescription drugs. These records were consolidated
into Novartis AG’s financial records and used to support Novartis AG’s financial
reporting to the SEC. As such, NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and
agents, caused these payments to be falsely recorded in Novartis AG’s books,
records, and accounts.

10. During this time period, NOVARTIS HELLAS recognized at
least $71.48 million in profits, as calculated for the purposes of the U.S.
Sentencing Guidelines, from sales of Lucentis in Greece and from sales of

Novartis-branded prescription drugs related to the epidemiological study.

 

1 Lucentis was a prescription drug sold by NOVARTIS HELLAS in Greece that
is approved for several indications, including to treat adults with neovascular
(wet) age-related macular degeneration.

4
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 60 of 79 PagelD: 84

Details of the International Medical Congress Scheme

 

11. Between in or about 2012 and in or about 2015, NOVARTIS
HELLAS paid for public and private ophthalmologists in Greece to attend

9?

international “medical congresses.” These congresses were organized by various
medical associations in the United States and Europe, and typically took place
over several days in a destination city in the United States or Europe.

12. By sponsoring Greek State HCPs to attend congresses,
NOVARTIS HELLAS paid for the costs associated with that Greek State HCP’s
attendance, such as airfare, hotel accommodations, and congress registration fees.
NOVARTIS HELLAS typically paid for travel costs associated with congresses
through third-party travel agencies. For each individual Greek State HCP, the
total cost to NOVARTIS HELLAS for attendance of an international congress
often exceeded $6,000.

13. NOVARTIS HELLAS’s policies stated that the purpose for
sending HCPs to congresses was to provide scientific or educational information.
In reality, however, sales employees at NOVARTIS HELLAS, including Novartis
Hellas Employee 1, sometimes used international congresses to improperly
influence and induce Greek State HCPs to increase prescriptions for Lucentis.

14. As part of the scheme, NOVARTIS HELLAS maintained

internal documentation noting that HCPs with the highest potential and highest

propensity to prescribe Lucentis would receive “investments,” such as
a kes a CA sunt ta Ba SP a :
Ne TAO A TA TA ee Rw

mee TPR we PRN OE OSE PSA PNR se ae ak OS Peep ad NP Per Pees Ss Kk TTA RR ae EPA SOI
Mace 2:3 e re GOSSR SOAR BParcument 2 Filer? GAfESieo Pat yS Panel: BA
Pek Gh al PoE Lae Aaa ed Get Ak Poa oF CARN Dh bd

3

oe,
re
Neg

sponsorships to attend international congresses, while HCPs with lower potential
and less propensity to prescribe Lucentis would receive no such “investments.”

15. The use of congresses as a means to improperly influence and
induce Greek State HCPs to prescribe Lucentis was discussed and documented at
NOVARTIS HELLAS. For example, on or about September 27, 2012, NOVARTIS
HELLAS’s Lucentis Brand Team held a meeting to discuss the sales strategy for
Greek State HCPs. Among other attendees, Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and
Novartis Hellas Employee 2 participated in the meeting. In the written minutes
from this meeting (the “Minutes”), a section entitled “Increase Pressure in [sic]
HCPs” reflected NOVARTIS HELLAS’s intent to use specific international
congress sponsorships to corruptly influence Greek State HCPs. In particular, the
Minutes stated that Greek State HCPs “must understand that their participation
in [specific congresses in the United States and Europe] will be cancelled if sales
performance is not improved significantly.”

16. The Minutes further explained that NOVARTIS HELLAS’s
message that it would withdraw its international congress sponsorships based on
poor Lucentis sales performance “must also be discussed with [sales] REPs in the
next Sales team [meeting]. REPs must make clear to their [HCP] customers that
Lucentis is facing real difficulties in the market and for this reason there will be
serious consequences.”

17. The Minutes referred to a certain U.S.-based ophthalmology

association that organized a congress in the United States (the “U.S. Academy”).
~~ ~~ Ar NY
face 29 me FAK BOS
We CR lc TA TP

CAPS AT RN cee em at OO Pek Lt pages Peer Pee Po ee PE EOI Re EPA OO
MOS RR LAR Pyactrmant 2 Edeari GASPS Mare RO af 7O Parnell: ASG
Pa WO BASRA REL GL od Ra AAS al € POT AMR Ase Ae OP a oF CARR Pe Ak

*

Sales employees in NOVARTIS HELLAS’s ophthalmology business unit sent
selected HCPs, including Greek State HCPs, to the U.S. Academy’s congress, and
employees of NOVARTIS HELLAS traveled to the United States and, while
located in the United States, facilitated the attendance of the Greek State HCPs
at the U.S. Academy’s congress as a method to corruptly influence the HCPs.

18. In or about January 2013, Novartis Hellas Employee 1
prepared a presentation entitled “Action Plan KOLs” which detailed the various
means through which Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at NOVARTIS
HELLAS intended to target various “Top KOLs,” or Key Opinion Leaders, in
ophthalmology (the “Action Plans’).

19. One such Action Plan targeted Greek HCP 1, who worked at
the Greek State-Owned Clinic. The Action Plan set forth how Novartis Hellas
Employee 1 and others at NOVARTIS HELLAS intended to use certain
“actions’—including sponsorship to U.S. congresses—to induce Greek HCP 1 to
prescribe Lucentis. The “Target” was to “increase” Greek HCP 1’s “loyalty” to
NOVARTIS HELLAS and “chan[ge] [HCP 1’s] mindset about cooperation.” As
described in the Action Plan’s “Strategy-Actions” section, Novartis Hellas
Employee 1 and others at NOVARTIS HELLAS sought to achieve this objective
through, among other “actions,” “tak[ing] advantage of [the U.S. Academy’s]

congresses.”
: oo. NORE AF » = panty 5 Ce 2 oe

face 3 eee SSBlQWAL Pyanarcrmant 2 Ederif at PO Dann iPy: 2?

Nr CARD A OP eC Le LARP PERI a a PRADA Afb of FU CAMSND ae, Ge
a

rrpes,
on
het

20. The Action Plan further stated that Novartis Hellas Employee
1 and others at NOVARTIS HELLAS should convey the following message to
Greek HCP 1: “to get you must write. No presents anymore.”

21. The Action Plan indicated that Novartis Hellas Employee 1
would “ASK HIM ALL,” meaning that the goal was to capture 100% of Greek HCP
1’s ophthalmology prescriptions for which Lucentis could be prescribed.

22. In or about late 2013, employees of NOVARTIS HELLAS
traveled to the United States and, while located in the United States, facilitated
the attendance of Greek HCP 1 and others at the U.S. Academy’s congress in New
Orleans, Louisiana.

23. In addition to Greek HCP 1, an Action Plan written by
Novartis Hellas Employee 1 stated that NOVARTIS HELLAS’s ophthalmology
business unit would “[l]ower investment [in another Greek State HCP] as a
penalty for [Lucentis injection] loss” while making their “motive (arge
investment)” visible to the HCP. To generate increased Lucentis prescriptions
from one particular Greek State HCP, another Action Plan written by Novartis
Hellas Employee 1 stated that the “Implementation Plan” consisted of specific
European congresses and the U.S. Academy’s congress along with a reference to
“5500 grand [sic] for congress.”

24. Inor about 2013, certain employees in NOVARTIS HELLAS’s
ophthalmology business unit developed a plan that outlined the various

“activities” that they intended to use to influence HCPs at a public hospital’s
a re “ ee BaP OP a SE oe
Ne TAO TA TA eC Oe

= oy SO OPE RT Ne » oe em, = pot , SE OE Fey oy ‘on oe a ce oe a oN eS
Mace BOP ere AN QSAR Prarcrirmant 2 Eder ASIP RIOR Bane SA at $O Panel: @R
wt had NOY LARP PERI a a Pod AA APSE cee PU CRA Asep Lb of wo PU CALS PLY, G9

a

ophthalmology clinic (the “Greek Hospital Clinic”). These activities included
“Participation in Congress (4x INTL, 10x National).”

25. In or about 2014, Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and another
manager at NOVARTIS HELLAS wrote a basketball-themed written presentation
for NOVARTIS HELLAS’s Lucentis brand team (the “Presentation’). The
Presentation addressed how NOVARTIS HELLAS’s Lucentis brand team should
approach Greek State HCPs who preferred a competitor company’s product and
who raised certain “defenses” against using Lucentis. Among other “defenses,”
these HCPs indicated that the competitor company’s products were the preferred
choice to treat age-related macular degeneration and were less expensive. The
Presentation described how NOVARTIS HELLAS intended to overcome these
“defenses” through the use of improper inducements to “convert” Greek State
HCPs to prescribing Lucentis.

26. One “defense,” which was described against the backdrop of an
image of a world famous basketball player’s face on a dollar bill, stated (as
translated): “[the competitor company] has a large budget to invest ‘they told me,

99?

whatever you want.” The competitor company’s strategy, as indicated in the
Presentation, included sending Greek State HCPs to U.S. congresses.
27. The Presentation further explained how NOVARTIS HELLAS

sought to “dissolve” this “defense” through, among other things, sending targeted

Greek State HCPs to ophthalmology congresses in Europe and the United States.
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 65 of 79 PagelD: 89

This included sending ten HCPs to the U.S. Academy’s congress at a cost of 67,000
euros (then equivalent to approximately $89,000).

28. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and agents,
falsely recorded the corrupt payments associated with congress sponsorships as
legitimate advertising and promotion expenses in NOVARTIS HELLAS’s internal
accounting records. By recording these payments as advertising and promotion
expenses, NOVARTIS HELLAS concealed their true and corrupt nature. These
false records were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records and used to
support Novartis AG’s financial reporting to the SEC. As such, NOVARTIS
HELLAS, through its employees and agents, knowingly and willfully conspired
and agreed with others to cause the corrupt payments to be falsely recorded as
legitimate expenses in Novartis AG’s books, records, and accounts.

Details of the Clinical Trial Scheme

 

Background on Clinical Trials at NOVARTIS HELLAS

29. NOVARTIS HELLAS was not responsible for Phase I, II, or
III clinical trials, which relate to different phases of the process leading from a
drug’s discovery to government approval. However, NOVARTIS HELLAS
sponsored post-approval clinical trials, known as Phase IV studies and
epidemiological studies, both of which were research studies intended to answer
scientific questions related to medical conditions treated by Novartis-branded
prescription drugs. In this role, and depending on the study, NOVARTIS HELLAS

selected Greek public and private HCPs to gather patient data for the studies.

10
AAA ~— 3p EDINA? TNA Rr eamnt 3 mit. ad FAO Per pete
Maen OOP Ler AAR SS LOMA, Piactmant 2 Edeari ares
Ke CRO Gl cL TA RLS eC he Wea PRT ae od La AS f tant é

30. Phase IV studies and epidemiological studies were designed to
inform medical and clinical decisions, not to increase sales. As set forth below,
however, NOVARTIS HELLAS made improper payments to HCPs related to an
epidemiological study intended to increase sales of certain Novartis-branded
prescription drugs.

The EXACTLY Study

31. In or about 2008, employees of NOVARTIS HELLAS
responsible for marketing Novartis-branded hypertension prescription drugs
developed a marketing project named “EXACTLY.” The brand managers prepared
a written “Project Summary” for EXACTLY dated November 19, 2008 (the “Project
Summary’). According to the Project Summary, NOVARTIS HELLAS planned to
provide HCPs with free blood pressure manometers and the HCPs would provide
NOVARTIS HELLAS with information related to their patients, including
uncontrolled or newly diagnosed patients with hypertension. Through EXACTLY,
NOVARTIS HELLAS sought to increase sales of Novartis-branded hypertension
prescription drugs.

32. The Project Summary described including over 2,200 HCPs
who, in turn, treated over 44,000 patients. With an anticipated return on
investment (“ROI”) of 3.04, the planned investment of over 2.8 million euros
(equivalent to then approximately $3.8 million) in payments to HCPs through

EXACTLY was expected to yield sales of over 8.6 million euros (the equivalent to

11
~~ ~~ Ar NY
face 29 me FAK BOS
We CR lc TA TP

has PNA eA ane nt Oo rrit oi Soy, PE OF AL CFR Re wet i. OE

SPMAF Poactumeant 2? Eueri{ Sara AP at $O PaneiPy G

vat he WOM RAGA PEA PPh mo 4 MARS ASP AE of we OP CARSR EL
x

m2
gaa Aa
S.OC36<

npr
eo
funn

then approximately $11.9 million). This projected ROI, the Project Summary
explained, included over 16,000 “newly diagnosed or uncontrolled patients.”

33. On or about November 19, 2008, the Project Summary for
EXACTLY was submitted to NOVARTIS HELLAS’s Country Compliance Board
(“CCB”) for internal approval. As reflected in the CCB’s Program Review Meeting
Minutes from on or about November 19, 2008, the CCB deemed EXACTLY to be
“of high value,” but decided that all or part of the project should be converted to a
“Scientific Investigation.” The CCB made this decision, in part, because
EXACTLY involved collecting patient data and would thus require approval from
the Greek government’s National Organization for Medicines (Ethnikos
Organismos Farmakon) (the “Greek EOF”).

34. NOVARTIS HELLAS accordingly redesigned a portion of
EXACTLY as an epidemiological investigational study designed “to evaluate the
percentage of uncontrolled hypertensive patients” in Greece. Instead of providing
free manometers to HCPs, the investigational study version of EXACTLY entailed
NOVARTIS HELLAS paying participating HCPs directly. Participating HCPs
were responsible for gathering patient data and completing case report forms to
record data for each enrolled patient.

35. In or about February 2009, the Greek EOF approved

EXACTLY as an investigational study.

12
Ap SS PL A? ~ mec ae me sf pes A eae Eee bet
PSLSMAR 6 BDacumeant 2 Fueci OBseS set
ath’ NOY Rw WLR PR ER GL Pod RA AAS Bed €

* . me Co=a ey ae yy
f AQ barn <P Sarno AQ at PO DanniM Qo
Re CRO A TA RP Ce TAL Meds Ab oF

2 RA ene of a
POP CALNE.
ao

36. From in or about April 2009 through in or about December
2009, NOVARTIS HELLAS and HCPs conducted the EXACTLY study which was
designed to target over 2,200 HCPs and over 44,000 patients.

37. Ultimately, NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and
agents, made improper payments to HCPs.

38. Many of the forms that were submitted contained mistakes
and inconsistencies, including forms that failed to indicate whether the patient
suffered from coronary disease, which is strongly linked to hypertension — the
core purported focus of EXACTLY.

39. NOVARTIS HELLAS’s employees also recognized that many
HCPs believed that they were paid in exchange for writing prescriptions for
Novartis-branded hypertension prescription drugs and not for providing data as
part of a clinical study. Specifically, on or about April 15, 2010, NOVARTIS
HELLAS held an internal meeting for brand managers and other personnel
involved with EXACTLY “to summarize the learnings and identify next steps” (the
“EXACTLY Debrief’). During the EXACTLY Debrief, which NOVARTIS HELLAS
audio recorded, regarding payments that HCPs received related to EXACTLY, a
number of employees and managers acknowledged the following:

e A NOVARTIS HELLAS manager stated that (as_ translated):
“TA]lthough the microphone is recording... . you all know this very well,
I just repeat, that the doctor believes that he/she participates in a study
[EXACTLY] and gets paid for what he prescribes in reality and not for
what he/she writes in the study. .. Consequently, the doctor’s impression

was that they participate just so that they get paid for what they
prescribe.”

13
~~ ~~ Ar NY
Aen FOR me AAR BO

ote aelom - oy OR I ~~ — cme ee + om
Mace BOP ere AN QB AL Prarciirmant 2 Ederi ABS RIOR Bane AG at 7O Panel: Q2
Ke CRO Gl cL TA RLS eC LAP Pa PUP ka AP aoe Ae PU CREAR ASS Jb of af 5 3

e A NOVARTIS HELLAS sales manager stated (as translated): “[T]he
main issue is... that the doctors believe that the study was conducted
in order to get paid for what they write, right?”

e A NOVARTIS HELLAS medical manager stated (as translated) that a
clinical study “is a part of the marketing mix; we do not disagree that
this is a type of benefit provided to the doctors. They know that they will
get paid, this is what happens in reality.”

e A NOVARTIS HELLAS brand manager stated that (as translated): “To
be honest, the studies were conducted in a similar way in the past as
well; they were conducted as marketing projects. That’s within
quotation marks. Between us.”

40. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and agents,
falsely recorded these payments related to EXACTLY as advertising and
promotion expenses in NOVARTIS HELLAS’s internal accounting records. By
doing so, NOVARTIS HELLAS concealed their true and improper nature. These
false records were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records and were used
to support Novartis AG’s financial reporting to the SEC. As such, NOVARTIS
HELLAS, through its employees and agents, knowingly and willfully conspired
and agreed with others to cause the payments related to EXACTLY to be falsely

recorded as legitimate expenses in Novartis AG’s books, records, and accounts.

14
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 70 of 79 PagelD: 94

COUNT ONE
(Conspiracy to Violate the Antibribery Provisions of the FCPA)

41. Paragraphs 1 through 8 and 10 through 28 of this Information
are realleged here.

42. Between in or about 2012 and in or about 2015, within the
United States and elsewhere, defendant

NOVARTIS HELLAS S.A.C.I.

together with Novartis Hellas Employee 1, Novartis Hellas Employee 2, and
others known and unknown, knowingly and willfully did combine, conspire,
confederate, and agree together and with each other to commit an offense against
the United States, that is: while in the territory of the United States, through its
employees and agents, did corruptly commit acts in furtherance of an offer,
payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the giving of anything of value toa
foreign official and to any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such
money and thing of value would be and had been offered, given, and promised to
a foreign official for purposes of: G) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign
official in his or her official capacity; Gi) inducing such foreign official to do and
omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing any
improper advantage; and (iv) inducing such foreign official to use his or her
influence with a foreign government and agencies and instrumentalities thereof
to affect and influence acts and decisions of such government and agencies and

instrumentalities, in order to assist NOVARTIS HELLAS in obtaining and

15
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 71 of 79 PagelD: 95

retaining business for and with, and directing business to, NOVARTIS HELLAS,
contrary to 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3.

Object of the Conspiracy

 

43. The object of the conspiracy was for NOVARTIS HELLAS and
its co-conspirators to gain improper business advantages for NOVARTIS
HELLAS, including increased sales of Lucentis, a Novartis-branded drug, by
bribing Greek State HCPs through sponsorships to attend international medical
congresses.

Manner and Means of the Conspiracy

 

44. The manner and means by which NOVARTIS HELLAS and
its co-conspirators and others sought to accomplish the object of the conspiracy
included, among other things, the following:

a. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through certain of its employees
and agents, including Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and Novartis Hellas Employee
2, sponsored Greek State HCPs to attend international congresses as a means to
bribe and corruptly influence the HCPs to increase prescriptions of Lucentis.

b. NOVARTIS HELLAS paid for public and private
ophthalmologists in Greece to attend international “medical congresses.” These
congresses were organized by various medical associations in the United States
and Europe, and typically took place over several days in a destination city in the

United States or Europe.

16
Mace 2: Oo. er GOS S28 SONAl Pactument 2 Fueri OBfES5/20 Bane 7? af 7S Panel Q6
CANS Ge’ Vide Le LAS a PUL A ea UCR Fa MP FS PU CR a,
k
C. By sponsoring Greek State HCPs to attend

congresses, NOVARTIS HELLAS paid for the costs associated with that Greek
State HCP’s attendance such as airfare, hotel accommodations, and congress
registration fees. NOVARTIS HELLAS typically paid for travel costs associated
with congresses through third-party travel agencies. For each individual Greek
State HCP, the total cost to NOVARTIS HELLAS for attendance of an
international congress often exceeded $6,000.

d. NOVARTIS HELLAS’s policies stated that the purpose
for sending HCPs to congresses was to provide scientific or educational
information. In reality, however, sales employees at NOVARTIS HELLAS,
including Novartis Hellas Employee 1, sometimes used international congresses
to improperly influence and induce Greek State HCPs to increase prescriptions
for Lucentis.

e. As part of the scheme, NOVARTIS HELLAS
maintained internal documentation noting that HCPs with the highest potential
and highest propensity to prescribe Lucentis would receive “investments,” such as
sponsorships to attend international congresses, while HCPs with lower potential
and less propensity to prescribe Lucentis would receive no such “investments.”

f. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and
agents, falsely recorded the corrupt payments associated with congress
sponsorships as legitimate advertising and promotion expenses in NOVARTIS

HELLAS’s internal accounting records. By recording these payments as

17
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 73 of 79 PagelD: 97

advertising and promotion expenses, NOVARTIS HELLAS concealed their true
and corrupt nature.
Overt Acts
45. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to effect its object,
NOVARTIS HELLAS and its co-conspirators committed or caused the commission
of the following acts in the United States and elsewhere:

a. On or about September 27, 2012, NOVARTIS
HELLAS’s Lucentis Brand Team held a meeting to discuss the sales strategy for
Greek State HCPs. Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and Novartis Hellas Employee 2
participated in the meeting at which it was discussed that Greek State HCPs
“must understand that their participation in [specific congresses in the United
States and Europe] will be cancelled if sales performance is not improved
significantly.”

b. In or about January 2013, Novartis Hellas Employee 1
prepared a presentation entitled “Action Plan KOLs” which detailed the various
means through which Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at NOVARTIS
HELLAS intended to target various Key Opinion Leaders in ophthalmology. One
such Action Plan targeted Greek HCP 1, who worked at the Greek State-Owned
Clinic. The Action Plan set forth how Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at
NOVARTIS HELLAS intended to use certain “actions’—including sponsorship to
U.S. congresses—to induce Greek HCP 1 to prescribe Lucentis. The Action Plan

further stated that Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at NOVARTIS

18
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 74 of 79 PagelD: 98

HELLAS should convey the following message to Greek HCP 1: “to get you must
write. No presents anymore.”
C. In or about late 2013, employees of NOVARTIS
HELLAS traveled to the United States and, while located in the United States,
facilitated the attendance of Greek HCP 1 and others at the U.S. Academy’s
congress in New Orleans, Louisiana.
In violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.

COUNT TWO
(Conspiracy to Violate the Books and Records Provision of the FCPA)

46. Paragraphs 1 through 8 and 10 through 40 of this Information
are realleged here.

47. Between in or about 2009 and in or about 2010 and between
in or about 2012 and in or about 2015 within the United States and elsewhere,
defendant

NOVARTIS HELLAS S.A.C.I.
together with others known and unknown, knowingly and willfully did combine,
conspire, confederate, and agree together and with each other to commit an
offense against the United States, that is: to knowingly and willfully falsify and
cause to be falsified books, records, and accounts required, in reasonable detail, to
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
Novartis AG, an issuer within the meaning of the FCPA, contrary to 15 U.S.C. 8§

78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a).

19
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 75 of 79 PagelD: 99

Object of the Conspiracy

48. The object of the conspiracy was for NOVARTIS HELLAS and
its co-conspirators to cause certain payments to be falsely recorded in Novartis
AG’s books, records, and accounts as a method to conceal the corrupt payments to
Greek State HCPs in furtherance of NOVARTIS HELLAS’s effort to obtain and
retain business relating to Lucentis, and to conceal the improper payments to
HCPs in connection with an epidemiological study intended to increase sales of
certain Novartis-branded prescription drugs.

Manner and Means of the Conspiracy

 

49. The manner and means by which NOVARTIS HELLAS and
its co-conspirators sought to accomplish the object of the conspiracy included,
among other things, the following:

a. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and
agents, falsely recorded the corrupt payments associated with congress
sponsorships as legitimate advertising and promotion expenses in NOVARTIS
HELLAS’s internal accounting records. The false books and records failed to
accurately reflect the true nature of the transactions and disposition of Novartis
AG’s assets.

b. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and
agents, falsely recorded improper payments related to EXACTLY as advertising

and promotion expenses in NOVARTIS HELLAS’s internal accounting records.

20
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 76 of 79 PagelD: 100

The false books and records failed to accurately reflect the true nature of the
transactions and disposition of Novartis AG’s assets.
Overt Acts

50. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to effect its object,

NOVARTIS HELLAS and its co-conspirators committed or caused the commission
of the following acts in the United States and elsewhere:
a. On or about September 27, 2012, NOVARTIS

HELLAS’s Lucentis Brand Team held a meeting to discuss the sales strategy for
Greek State HCPs. Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and Novartis Hellas Employee 2
participated in the meeting at which it was discussed that Greek State HCPs
“must understand that their participation in [specific congresses in the United
States and Europe] will be cancelled if sales performance is not improved
significantly.”
b. In or about January 2013, Novartis Hellas Employee 1

prepared a presentation entitled “Action Plan KOLs” which detailed the various
means through which Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at NOVARTIS
HELLAS intended to target various Key Opinion Leaders in ophthalmology. One
such Action Plan targeted Greek HCP 1, who worked at the Greek State-Owned
Clinic. The Action Plan set forth how Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at
NOVARTIS HELLAS intended to use certain “actions’—including sponsorship to
U.S. congresses—to induce Greek HCP 1 to prescribe Lucentis. The Action Plan

further stated that Novartis Hellas Employee 1 and others at NOVARTIS

21
a

it
goers
ea
rwcecah
a

HELLAS should convey the following message to Greek HCP 1: “to get you must
write. No presents anymore.”

C. In or about late 2013, employees of NOVARTIS
HELLAS traveled to the United States and, while located in the United States,
facilitated the attendance of Greek HCP 1 and others at the U.S. Academy’s
congress in New Orleans, Louisiana.

d. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and
agents, falsely recorded the payments associated with Greek HCP 1’s attendance
at the U.S. Academy’s congress as advertising and promotion expenses. By doing
so, NOVARTIS HELLAS concealed their true and corrupt nature. These false
records were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records and used to support
Novartis AG’s financial reporting to the SEC.

e. From in or about April 2009 through in or about
December 2009, NOVARTIS HELLAS and HCPs conducted the EXACTLY study
which was designed to target over 2,200 HCPs and over 44,000 patients.
Ultimately, NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and agents, made
improper payments to HCPs related to EXACTLY, which was intended to increase
sales of certain Novartis-branded prescription drugs.

f. NOVARTIS HELLAS, through its employees and
agents, falsely recorded these payments related to EXACTLY as advertising and
promotion expenses in NOVARTIS HELLAS’s internal accounting records. By

doing so, NOVARTIS HELLAS, concealed their true and improper nature. These

22
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 78 of 79 PagelD: 102

false records were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records and were used
to support Novartis AG’s financial reporting to the SEC.

In violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.

  

 

 

}ar 2420

— |
ROBERT ZINK KALE CARPENITO
Chief, Fraud Section United States Attorney
Criminal Division District of New Jersey

U.S. Department of Justice

23
Case 2:20-cr-00538-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 79 of 79 PagelD: 103
CASE NUMBER: 20-cr-538

 

 

United States District Court
District of New Jersey

 

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Vv.

NOVARTIS HELLAS S.A.C.I.

 

 

INFORMATION

18 U.S.C. § 371

 

 

CRAIG CARPENITO
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

 

 

BERNARD J. COONEY
SENIOR TRIAL COUNSEL
JOSHUA L. HABER
ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY
(973) 645-2823

 

 
