Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 20319 / October 1, 2007

Securities and Exchange Commission v. York International
Corporation, 07 CV 01750 (D.D.C.)(RCL)

SEC Files Settled Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Charges Against York
International Corporation For Improper Payments to UAE Officials, to
Iraq Under the U.N. Oil for Food Program, and to Others - - Company
Agrees to Pay Over $12 Million and to Retain an Independent
Compliance Monitor

The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed anti-bribery, internal
controls, and books and records charges under the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act against York International Corporation ("York International") in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia. York International, a global provider
of heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration products and
services, was acquired by Johnson Controls, Inc. in 2005. The Commission's
complaint alleges that York International's Delaware subsidiary paid
approximately $522,500 to an intermediary while knowing that most of the
money was intended to bribe United Arab Emirate officials; York
International's Dubai subsidiary authorized and made approximately
$647,110 in kickback payments under the U.N. Oil for Food Program; and that
York International's subsidiaries devised elaborate schemes to conceal
kickback payments of over $7.5 million made to secure orders on certain
commercial and government projects in the Middle East, India, China, Nigeria
and Europe.

According to the Commission's Complaint:

In 2003 and 2004, York International's Delaware subsidiary, York Air
Conditioning and Refrigeration, Inc. ("YACR") paid approximately $522,500 to
an intermediary while knowing that most of the money was intended to bribe
United Arab Emirate officials to secure contracts in connection with the
construction of a government-owned luxury hotel called the Conference
Palace. Altogether, thirteen illicit payments were made on this project,
totaling $550,000.

In addition, from 2000 to 2003, York International's Dubai subsidiary
authorized and made approximately $647,110 in kickback payments in
connection with its sale of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the Oil for Food
Program (the "Program"). Although the payments were characterized as
"after-sales service fees," no bona fide services were actually performed. The
Program provided humanitarian relief to the Iraqi population during the time
that Iraq was subject to international trade sanctions. The kickback payments
paid in connection with York International's subsidiary's sale of goods were
paid by a third party to Iraqi-controlled accounts in countries such as Jordan.

From 2001 through 2006, York International, through certain subsidiaries,
made over $7.5 million in illicit payments to secure orders on certain
commercial and government projects in the Middle East, India, China, Nigeria
and Europe. York International's subsidiaries devised elaborate schemes to
conceal kickback payments to certain individuals who had enough influence
to secure contracts for York International's subsidiaries. These payments were
referred to internally as "consultancy payments," however, similar to the
payments made under the Oil for Food Program, no bona fide services were
performed. A total of 854 improper consultancy payments were made on
approximately 774 contracts -- 302 projects involved government end-users,
such as government owned companies, public hospitals, or schools.

York International violated the anti-bribery provision by paying bribes to UAE
officials to secure business. York International failed to devise and maintain
an effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect numerous
violations, as shown by: 1) the extent and duration of the illicit payment
schemes, 2) the involvement of multiple subsidiaries and numerous managers
and employees, and 3) the improper recording of these payments in the
books and records. York International failed to accurately record in its books
and records the kickbacks that were authorized for payment to Iraq, the
bribes in the UAE, and the illicit consultancy payments made in various
countries.

York International, without admitting or denying the allegations in the
Commission's complaint, consented to the entry of a final judgment
permanently enjoining it from future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A),
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, ordering it to disgorge
$8,949,132 in profits, plus $1,083,748 in pre-judgment interest, and to pay a
civil penalty of $2,000,000. York International is also ordered to retain an
independent compliance monitor. York International will also pay a $10 million
fine pursuant to a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Department
of Justice, Fraud Section.

The Commission considered remedial acts promptly undertaken by York
International, which self-reported, and cooperation afforded the Commission
staff in its continuing investigation. The Commission acknowledges the
assistance of the Department of Justice, Fraud Section and the United Nations
Independent Inquiry Committee.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http:/www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/200 7/r20319.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 10/01/2007
