cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Takes Action Against Debt-Relief Business
and Its Owner for Taking Illegal Advance Fees

NOV 05, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) today filed a
complaint against Performance SLC, LLC (PSLC), a California debt-relief business focused
on federal student loan debt; Performance Settlement, LLC (PSettlement), a California debt-
settlement company; and Daniel Crenshaw, the owner and CEO of the two companies. The
Bureau alleges that PSLC and Crenshaw charged illegal advance fees in violation of the
Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR) to student loan borrowers seeking to obtain loan
consolidation, loan forgiveness, or income-driven repayment plans for their federal student
loans, and that PSLC failed to make required disclosures to certain consumers in violation of
the TSR. The Bureau also alleges that PSettlement and Crenshaw used deceptive tactics in
violation of the Consumer Financial Protection Act (CFPA) in order to induce consumers to
sign up for PSettlement's services.

The Bureau's complaint, which was filed in federal district court for the Central District of
California, alleges that from 2015 through the present, PSLC charged consumers illegal
upfront fees by using telemarketing campaigns to convince thousands of consumers to sign
up for services to assist them in obtaining loan consolidation, loan forgiveness, or income-
driven repayment plans from the U.S. Department of Education (ED). Consumers would pay
between $1,000 and $1,450 in fees to PSLC for it to file paperwork with ED, even though
student loan borrowers can do this themselves for free. Under the TSR, it is illegal to request
or receive any fees for debt-relief services sold through telemarketing before the terms of
the debt are altered or settled, and the consumer has made at least one payment under the
newly altered debt. The Bureau alleges that the PSLC and Crenshaw violated the TSR
because consumers were charged at or just after enrollment, before the terms of the debts
were altered. The Bureau also alleges that PSLC had some consumers pay this prohibited
upfront fee through high-interest financing from a third party. Some consumers paid a
portion or all of their fee into a trust account, but the complaint alleges that PSLC failed to
provide them with disclosures required by the TSR.

The complaint also alleges that PSettlement and Crenshaw, from as early as 2019, engaged
in deceptive acts and practices in violation of the CFPA by representing to consumers that
PSettlement, a debt-settlement company that does not make loans, had considered and
rejected those consumers for personal loans to induce them to sign up for PSettlement’s
debt-relief services. Finally, the Bureau alleges that Crenshaw substantially assisted PSLC in
requesting or receiving fees illegally and PSettlement in engaging in deceptive acts and
practices.

The complaint seeks redress to consumers, injunctive relief, and the imposition of civil
money penalties against the defendants.

The complaint is not a finding or ruling that the defendants have violated the law.

The Bureau’s complaint is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_performance-slc-Ilc-performance-
settlement-Ilc-daniel-crenshaw_complaint_2020-11.pdf ll (cfpb.gov/documents/9286/cfpb
_performance-slc-llc-performance-settlement-Ilc-daniel-crenshaw_complaint_2020-11.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
