UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

RECEIVED CFTC
In the Matter of:

XBT Corp. SARL d/b/a First

Global Credit, CFTC Docket No. 20-04

Proceedings Clerk
8:44 am, Oct 31, 2019

Respondent.

 

eee

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL sanctions

I. INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from March 2016 to July 2017 (“Relevant Period”), XBT Corp. SARL d/b/a First Global Credit
(“FGC” or “Respondent’) violated Section 4d(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”),

7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1) (2012). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine
whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any
order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer’’), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity
Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial sanctions (“Order”), and
acknowledges service of this Order. !

 

' Respondent consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this proceeding and
in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, and agrees
that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Respondent
does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any
other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, other than: a
proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or, a proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondent does not
consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any
other proceeding.
II. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. Summary

Respondent’s website, www.firstglobalcredit.com (“website”), claimed to provide
“Mainstream market access” for digital currency traders. During the Relevant Period, through
the website and its electronic trading platform (“platform”) accessed through the website, FGC
solicited or accepted orders for the purchase or sale of commodity futures from U.S. customers,
and accepted bitcoin to margin customers’ trades, without being registered with the Commission
as a futures commission merchant (“FCM”).

Accordingly, Respondent violated Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1)
(2012).
oe 2 oe ee ok eae
In accepting the Offer, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s cooperation with the
Commission’s Division of Enforcement. The Commission notes that Respondent’s cooperation
is reflected in the form of a substantially reduced civil monetary penalty.

B. Respondent

XBT Corp. SARL, d/b/a First Global Credit during the Relevant Period, is a company
organized under the laws of Switzerland and has its main office in Geneva, Switzerland.

C. Facts
1, Respondent’s Unlawful Operation as an FCM

During the Relevant Period, Respondent’s website and platform solicited customers,
including those in the United States, to engage in the purchase or sale of commodities for future
delivery (“futures’’), such as 10-Year Treasury Note and E-Micro Gold futures, among other
futures contracts. Trades on FGC’s platform were settled in bitcoin in accord with FGC’s claim
of providing “Mainstream market access” for digital currency traders.

In furtherance of this solicitation, in a March 2016 press release posted on its website,
FGC announced “First Global Credit Brings Commodity Futures Trading to Digital Currency
Holders.” The press release announced that “Commodity Futures is the next logical step in
providing digital currency holders with the same choices fiat currency holders have” while
“clients still get the benefit of trading a leveraged contract because in the case of futures,
leverage is built directly into the contract.”

FGC subsequently solicited or accepted orders from customers in contracts listed on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Globex trading platform, including the 10-Year Treasury Note
futures and the E-Micro Gold futures. As noted, FGC’s platform was accessed through its
website. Prior to any transactions, FGC required customers to submit certain Know-Your-
Customer (“K YC”) information and documents. As part of the account opening process
customers deposited bitcoin in a bitcoin wallet controlled by FGC.
To assist customers FGC established a separate page on its website instructing customers
how to “Trade Futures Using bitcoins as collateral margin.” Customers entered orders using
bitcoin as collateral margin. According to FGC’s website “Since you retain your bitcoins (and
the growth benefit) we arrange a loan to cover the margin needed to place the trade.” FGC
charged a financing fee for positions held overnight. FGC also charged a commission per trade.

Through its platform, FGC accepted money, securities, or property (or extended credit in
lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure such trades, including those of U.S. customers.
Thus, FGC acted as an FCM by soliciting or accepting orders for futures. During the Relevant
Period, FGC was not registered with the Commission as an FCM or in any other capacity, and
FGC was not exempt from registration.

Wl. LEGAL DISCUSSION
A. Respondent’s Failure To Register as an FCM

Section la(28)(A) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la(28)(A) (2012), defines an FCM in relevant
part as an individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust that is engaged in soliciting or
in accepting orders for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery and in or in
connection with soliciting or accepting such orders, accepts any money, securities, or property
(or extends credit in lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades that result or may
result therefrom.

Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1) (2012), makes it unlawful for any person
to be an FCM unless such person is registered as such with the Commission.

During the Relevant Period, Respondent solicited or accepted orders for futures from
U.S. customers and in connection with these activities, accepted money, securities, or property in
the form of bitcoin as margin. See CFTC v. Ipool Ltd., No. 1:18-CV-2243-TNM, 2019 WL
1605201 (D.D.C. Mar. 4, 2019) (consent order) (finding that a foreign trading platform was
required to be registered as an FCM because it accepted money, securities, or property in the
form of bitcoin, to margin, guarantee, or secure trades). Respondent did this without being
registered as an FCM. Therefore, Respondent violated Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act. See id.; see
also Inre Davisco Foods Int'l, Inc., CFTC No. 17-11, 2017 WL 1195808, at *2 (Mar. 27, 2017)
(consent order) (finding a cheese and food ingredient company was required to be registered as
an FCM because it accepted orders in futures contracts from its milk suppliers and accepted
money from, or extended credit to these suppliers by debiting or crediting the suppliers’
accounts),

IV. FINDINGS OF violations

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Section 4d(a)(1)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1) (2012).

Vv. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:
Acknowledges service of this Order;

Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violations of or enforcement of this Order;

Waives:

1, The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;

4, Judicial review by any court;

5. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,
5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012), and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2019), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II, §§ 201~253, 110
Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
and

8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the

entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief, including this Order; ,

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1.

Makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Section 4d(a)(1) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1) (2012);

Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act;
Orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred

thousand dollars ($100,000) within thirty days of the date of the entry of this
Order; and
4, Orders Respondent to comply with the conditions and undertakings consented to in
the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act,
7 ULS.C. § 6d(a)(1) (2012).

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) (“CMP Obligation”), within thirty days of the date of the entry of this
Order. Ifthe CMP Obligation is not paid in full within thirty days of the date of entry of
this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on
the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by electronic
funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank _
money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the
payment shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent
to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Marie
Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the Respondent and the name and docket
number of this proceeding. Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover
letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
20581, and to Harry E. Wedewer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 1155 21st
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent shall comply with the following conditions and undertakings set forth in the
Offer:
Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its agents or
employees under its authority or control shall take any action or make any public
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order
or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondent’s:
(i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions in other proceedings
to which the Commission is not a party. Respondent shall comply with this
agreement, and shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents
and/or employees under its authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement. .

Disgorgement: Respondent agrees to pay disgorgement in the amount of one
thousand eight hundred ninety-five dollars ($1895) (“Disgorgement Obligation”),
representing the gains received in connection with such violations, within thirty
days of the date of the entry of this Order. If the Disgorgement Obligation is not
paid or otherwise satisfied in full within thirty days of the date of entry of this
Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the Disgorgement Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the
Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28
U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay any portion of the Disgorgement Obligation and any post-
judgment interest by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified
check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be made other
than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact
Marie Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment
instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall
accompany payment of the Disgorgement Obligation with a cover letter that
identifies the paying Respondent and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the
cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20581, and to Harry E. Wedewer, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, 1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.
3. Cooperation: Respondent shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the
Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, in this action,
and in any current or future Commission investigation or action related thereto.
Respondent shall also cooperate in any investigation, civil litigation, or
administrative matter related to, or arising from, the subject matter of this action.

4. Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by
the Commission of any partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall
not be deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
remaining balance.

5. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full its
CMP Obligation as set forth in this Order, Respondent shall provide written
notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to its telephone number
and mailing address within ten calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christopher J. jcZ 3

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: October 31, 2019
