2020-BCFP-0022 Document’ Filed 11/20/2020 Page 1 of 33

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP-0022

 

In the Matter of: CONSENT ORDER

U.S. EQUITY ADVANTAGE, INC.
and ROBERT M. STEENBERGH,

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
acts and practices of U.S. Equity Advantage, Inc. (USEA) and Robert M.
Steen bergh (Steenbergh) (collectively Respondents) regarding their marketing for
an automobile loan Payment Accelerator Program and has identified the following
violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act, § 1031(a) and 1036(a)(1)(B);

12 U.S.C. §§ 5531 (a), 5536(a)(1)(B):

(1) Respondents misrepresent to consumers, when disclosing individualized
benefits, the interest savings they will realize from the program.
Respondents’ disclosures project savings for each consumer, but fail to

account for the program’s $399 enrollment fee in calculating those
savings. In fact, the program’s cost will ordinarily exceed any savings
because of the enrollment fee it charges;
(2) Respondents misrepresent to consumers the “Total Benefit” of the
program; and
(3) Respondents misrepresent that they have helped hundreds of thousands
of customers save $29 million or more in interest by participating in
AutoPayPlus when Respondents have no basis for making this claim, and
in fact the program has not saved consumers anywhere near that amount.
Under Sections 1053 and 1055 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent

Order).

I

Jurisdiction

1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under sections 1053 and 1055

of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563 and 5565.

I
Stipulation

2. Respondents have executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated November 2, 2020 (Stipulation), which is

incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this
3.

a

C.

Stipulation, Respondents have consented to the issuance of this Consent
Order by the Bureau under sections 1053 and 1055 ofthe CFPA, 12
U.S.C. §§ 5563 and 5565, without admitting or denying any ofthe
findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that Respondents admit the
facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondents and

the subject matter ofthis action.

Hil

Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

. “Affected Consumers” includes all persons who enrolled in the

AutoPayPlus during the Relevant Period who paid the full amount of
enrollment fees on an interest-bearing loan and did not receive a refund
of those fees.
‘“AutoPayPlus” means a Payment Accelerator Program that Respondents
have marketed, and includes preceding or succeeding programs such as
Equity Accelerator Program.
“Clearly and Prominently” means:

i. Intextual communications (e.g., printed publications or words

displayed on the screen of an electronic device), the disclosure

must be ofa type size and location sufficiently noticeable for an
ARAN PRE ARMS =
2OPORGCERLOOG? As
Bot Nweh oF APS oe ath.

athe A A

warrant 4 iba
¥ =) _— sce
AMPE Peet og PoRIRSAY 4

4 IAA ISAAL ~~
APOOLEOAOH Poy
BR if : a

a3
oe
cp

ordinary consumer to read and comprehend it, in print that
contrasts with the background on which it appears;

iil. In communications disseminated orally or through audible means
(e.g., radio or streaming audio), the disclosure must be delivered in
a volume and cadence sufficient for an ordinary consumer to hear
and comprehend it;

iii. In communications disseminated through video means (e.g.,
television or streaming video), the disclosure must be in writing in
a form consistent with subsection (1), and must appear on the
screen for a duration sufficient for an ordinary consumer toread
and comprehend it;

iv. In communications made through interactive media such as the
internet, online services, and software, the disclosure must be
unavoidable and presented in a form consistent with subsection (1);

v. In communications that contain both audio and visual portions, the
disclosure must be presented simultaneously in both the audio and
visual portions of the communication; and

vi. In all instances, the disclosure must be presented before the
consumer incurs any financial obligation, in an understandable

lan guage and syntax, and with nothing contrary to, inconsistent
ARAN PRE ARMS =
2OPORGCERLOOG? As
Bot Nweh oF APS oe ath.

athe A A

soared fF Citae 4
¥ =) _— sce
Mabpbee dng Ppigok of

A FPN REPRO RS Tres ewe
4 POO AOE Dana $
BERG Ps : a

0
te
op
csi
Le:
a

with, or in mitigation of the disclosures used in any
communication with the consumer.

. “Respondent” when referring to U.S. Equity Advantage, Inc., includes its
successors and assigns.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.
“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or
her delegate.

. “Payment Accelerator Program” means a service or program that
withdraws consumer funds more frequently than their original loan
schedule and then transmits the funds to consumers’ lenders or loan
Servicers.

. “Related Consumer Action” meansa private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondents based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent
Order.

‘Relevant Period” includes the period from July 21, 2011 to the Effective

Date.
j. “Respondents” means U.S. Equity Advantage, Inc., and Robert M.

Steenbergh, individually, collectively, or in any combination.

IV

Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:
USEA 1s a Florida corporation with its principal place of business at 800
North Magnolia Avenue, Suite 1275, Orlando, FL 32803.
Robert M. Steenbergh is the founder, President, Chief Executive Officer,
and ultimate owner of U.S. Equity Advantage, Inc., and he personally
directed or oversaw its practices in this matter.
Respondents, at all times material to this complaint, have collected and
transmitted consumer funds from consumers to their lenders or servicers,
activity that constitutes a consumer financial product or service covered by
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (15) (A) (iv). Respondents are both a
“covered person” and “service provider” as those terms are defined by 12
U.S.C. § 5481(6) and (26).
Given his status as an officer or employee charged with managerial
responsibility for USEA, acontrolling shareholder, and a shareholder who
materially participates in the conduct of the affairs of USEA, Steenbergh is

a “related person” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(25)(C).
10.

11.

12.

13.

Because of his status as a “related person” under the CFPA, Steenbergh is
deemed a “covered person” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(25)(B).
Since November 2005, Respondents have offered a Payment Accelerator
Program called “AutoPayPlus” (formerly called the “Equity Accelerator
Program”’).

Respondents’ AutoPayPlus program, like many accelerator programs,
collects and applies one extra loan payment each year toward repayment of
consumer’s loans which, in theory, can substantially reduce the number of
loan payments and the interest paid over the life of the loan.

In the AutoPayPlus program, consumers authorize USEA to withdraw
portions of their regularly due car payments on an alternative schedule,
often corresponding to the consumers’ paydays.

For most of its customers, USEA makes these withdrawals bi-weekly.
USEA holds these payments, and then submits full payments to the
consumers’ lenders or other payees on the schedules set by those lenders
or payees—usually monthly.

Because there are 52 weeks and 26 bi-weekly periods each year, USEA
withdraws the equivalent of thirteen monthly payments each year, instead

of twelve.
14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

me Pee oy,
eOOOREE BAAD Marci
Rae Nee og Ae? a ad Sis

athe A A

Respondents charge a “program fee,” sometimes called an “enrollment
fee,” to consumers in the AutoPayPlus program. Respondents apply a
consumer’s extra payments to this fee until it is paid in full, before
submitting any of the extra payments to the consumer’s lender.

Once Respondents’ fees are paid, future extra payments are sent to
consumers’ lenders or payees.

During the Relevant Period, more than 100,000 consumers have enrolled
in AutoPayPlus.

Respondents enter into agreements with various auto dealerships to enroll
consumers in the AutoPayPlus program.

Those dealerships receive a commission based on the number of
consumers they enroll.

Respondents have entered into agreements to enroll customers in their
payment accelerator program with more than 900 dealerships.

Since at least July 21, 2011, Respondents’ “program fee” or “enrollment
fee” has been $399.

Respondents charge a “convenience fee” or “debit fee” each time money is
withdrawn from consumers’ accounts, i.e., every two weeks for most

customers.
22.

23.

24.

Since January 2017, Respondents’ “debit fee” or “convenience fee” has
been $2.45. Before January 2017, the debit fee was $1.95.

Respondents charge consumers a one-time “verification fee” when they
process consumers’ authorization to withdraw money from their bank

accounts via Automated Clearing House withdrawals.

Since at least July 21, 2011, USEA’s “verification fee” has been $0.95.

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondents’ Misrepresentations Regarding

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

the Overall Benefits of AutoPayPlus
During the Relevant Period, Respondents provided dealerships with a web
portal or with software through which the dealerships can enroll customers
in the AutoPayPlus program.
Respondents’ web portal and software generate customized disclosure
forms called “Bi-Weekly Sales Tools” or “Benefits Disclosures.”
The benefits disclosures are based on individual consumers’ loan terms
and purport to describe the benefits and costs specific to individual
consumers.
Respondents instruct dealerships to provide every consumer with the
benefits disclosures to “guarantee accurate benefit disclosure.”
Respondents do not permit dealerships to change or manipulate the

benefits disclosures before presenting them to the consumer.
30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

PRP PEER OA ere ae cA puss , ek ge ee ro ar ~ N
2H BER AVS Miners t fF Cla Fa Perfo agen Bia FO) Af RO
Sao Te WA RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POPS! of brake ura POTALSAS FA Let ee

The disclosures purport to show potential savings after accounting for fees.
For example, the disclosures state: “Congrats! Your interest savings cover
service costs and you pocket $[ specific amount] in interest.” The
disclosures also state: “All AutoPayPlus benefits have taken into
consideration and amortized the $399 program fee.”

Despite these representations about covering fees and taking into
consideration the enrollment fee, the costs and savings represented to
consumers in the disclosures fail to account for the $399 enrollment fee,
thereby overstating savings or understating costs to every consumer by
$399.

Section 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits “unfair, deceptive, or
abusive” acts or practices. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(B).

Respondents’ representations, as described in Paragraphs 25-31 constitute
deceptive acts or practices in violation of sections 103 1(a) and
1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 553 1(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

During the Relevant Period, Respondents enrolled over 100,000
consumers in AutoPayPlus. Tens of thousands of these consumers paid

the full enrollment fee on an interest-bearing loan.
AA RE RA ee ~~ . oA pansy ee ee er ax Aw = os
SOOO HD Prem AIS Pree ey ceed of Clad 4A (ON foAagy Meese Tet at 23
oe ee ok oe te ee ee POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PRGA OG ob Fe Peis Pe et pees of ok fee *
Batt UPd Cw er oes RPA TAS Pd PoP oF Gs eke es Sn SP : aA : att P tad

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondents’ Misrepresentations Concerning
“Total Benefit”

35. During the Relevant Period, Respondents state in disclosures provided to
consumers specific dollar savings amounts called the “Im proved Equity”
and “Total Benefit,” which refers to the reduced loan balance at a
particular time in the loan schedule.

36. But Respondents, while touting the “benefit” to consumers of enrolling in
AutoPayPlus in dollar terms, failed to disclose to consumers that any gain
in equity is caused by the fact that consumers are paying more money and,
in most cases, will end up having to pay more to USEA than the actual
value of the “benefit” to realize it.

37. Section 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits “unfair, deceptive, or
abusive” acts or practices. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(B).

38. Respondents’ representations, as set forth in Paragraphs 35-36, constitute
deceptive acts or practices in violation of sections 103 1(a) and
1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 553 1(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondents’ Misrepresentations Concerning
Consumers’ Historical Savings from AutoPayPlus

39. During the Relevant Period, Respondents provided marketing materials,

including brochures distributed to consumers and multiple websites, which
40.

4].

42.

43.

ARAN SRP AMAT PA ee et enh th kt PL Pe EY
POS ORE RELOOOS Pocument 7 Pilad t1feofeoso Pace dT? af SS
Bad ae MRP De ON? he BASE EAGER piteka Pree re Yok Pp ob LE rt

claim that USEA has helped hundreds of thousands of customers save $29
million or more in interest.

At all times that Respondents made these claims, they did not collect or
maintain data to support the claims, or otherwise have any reasonable basis
for them.

In fact, Respondents’ customers have not achieved $29 million in interest
savings and Respondents have not calculated the actual total consumer
interest savings.

Section 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits “unfair, deceptive, or
abusive” acts or practices. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(B).

Respondents’ representations, as set forth in Paragraphs 39-41, constitute
deceptive acts or practices in violation of sections 103 1(a) and

1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
44.

a.

ARAN PAAR AMAM ae . 4 ots kk RN EP ~~ ae
2H BER AVS Mie issycinmt 4 Cuan 44 FO OP Aen Dare 1°;
Sai tee ot WA RAP ASE EAD ERG PoEURSAS fF bP eo eure y TALS me

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

Vv
Prohibition on Deceptive Practices

IT IS ORDERED, under sections 1053 and 1055 ofthe CFPA, that:
Respondents and Respondents’ officers, agents, servants, employees, and
attorneys who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting
directly or indirectly, may not violate sections 103 1(a) and 1036(a\1)(B)
of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 553 1(a) and 5536(a)(1)(B), by misrepresenting
or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or impliedly, the
following:

That consumers have experienced savings of any amount, a reduction

in payments, or any other financial benefit from using AutoPayPlus or

other Payment Accelerator Program;

That by enrolling in Respondents’ AutoPayPlus or other Payment

Accelerator Program, consumers will achieve savings of any amount, a

reduction in payments, or any other financial benefit through savinga

specific amount in interest payments;

The nature and function of the Payment Accelerator Program,

including by creating the impression that consumers achieve savings
ARAAR RAPER ANAS ~*~. Loa emt ot dk PAI ~ aa nS
POS ORE RELOOOS Pocument 7 Fideacd PTfeafreoeo Pane dd of 38
Band tn at RP EE Ant Ad atin Boe BA AEN Pa PoE! ob bra cue POSAGNe PP Leb wit

through an accelerated payment schedule, rather than through making
increased payments resulting in a higher annual loan payment;
Any other fact material to consumers concerning a Payment
Accelerator Program, such as: total costs; any material restrictions,
limitations, or conditions; or any material aspect of its performance,
efficacy, nature, or central characteristics.
Respondents and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys
who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or
offering for sale of any Payment Accelerator Program, shall not in any
manner, expressly or by implication:
Represent that the Payment Program will save any consumer money,
including interest, unless the amount of savings a consumer will
achieve is greater than the total amount of fees and costs charged in
connection with the Payment Program and the representation is
otherwise true.
Represent that the Payment Program will save any consumer a specific
amountof money, including interest, unless the specified amount is

the amount of savings after deducting any fees or costs charged in
46.

47.

connection with the Payment Program and the representation is

otherwise true.

Bureau’s Company Portal Requirement
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must complete all steps
necessary to register USEA in the Bureau’s Company Portal, including
providing the information required at
www.consumerfinance.gov/company-signup and in the Bureau’s
Company Portal Boarding Form (OMB No. 3170-0054). USEA, in
connection with responding to consumer complaints and inquiries, whether
acting directly or indirectly, is subject to and may not violate § 1034(b)
and (c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5534(b) and (c).

MONETARY PROVISIONS
VI
Order to Pay Redress

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

A judgment for equitable monetary relief is entered in favor of the Bureau
and against Respondents, in the amount of $9,300,000, however, full
payment of this judgment will be suspended upon satisfaction of the
obligations in Paragraphs 48 through 53 ofthis Section and Paragraphs 62

through 64 of Section [IX and subject to Section VII of this Consent Order.
48.

49.

50.

APA PE SAP RR Ata sy PU aa aun pret aoa ge QV Pe ewe OS «EN
POS ORE RELOOOS Pocument 7 Pilad t1feofeoso Pace Th af 38
SNP eI Pe Ot sn En BA AEN Pa POPS Of be ke co eo : A oF Lat PP

Based on financial statements and supporting documentation that
Respondents submitted to the Bureau and Respondents’ inability to pay the
entire judgment for equitable monetary relief, Respondents are ordered to
pay $900,000 toward the judgment for equitable monetary relief provided
in Paragraph 47. This payment shall be made in accordance with the terms
of Paragraph 49.

Respondents must pay to the Bureau, by wire transfer to the Bureau or the
Bureau’s agent, and according to the Bureau’s writing instructions,
$900,000, in partial satisfaction of the judgment reference in Paragraph 47
of this Section. Respondents shall pay the judgment in 15 monthly
installments of $60,000 each. The first installment is due within 10 days of
the Effective Date and the remaining 14 installments due by the 15" of
each subsequent month with the final payment due on or before January
15, 2022.

With regard to any redress that Respondents pay under this Section, if
Respondents receive, directly or indirectly, any reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, or if Respondents secure a tax deduction
or tax credit with regard to any federal, state, or local tax, Respondents

must: (a) immediately notify the Enforcement Director in writing, and (b)
S1.

52.

53.

SNR POE A mre ~ + 4 pay . a
SAA eee Te Aes Payee cssscamd 4 Pilar 44 Pom loy ria
oe ee ok oe te ee ee POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe RGAE GF pag eid

on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd tee ,

within 10 days of receiving the funds or monetary benefit, Respondents
must transfer to the Bureau the full amount of such funds or monetary
benefit (Additional Payment) to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent
according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions. After the Bureau receives
the Additional Payment, the amount of the suspended judgment referenced
in Paragraph 47 will be reduced by the amount of the Additional Payment.
Any funds received by the Bureau in satisfaction of this judgment will be
deposited into a fund or funds administered by the Bureau or to the
Bureau’s agent according to applicable statutes and regulations to be used
for redress for injured consumers, including but not limited to refund of
moneys, restitution, damages or other monetary relief, and for any
attendant expenses for the administration of any such redress.

If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that redress to consumers is
wholly or partially impracticable or if funds remain after redress is
completed, the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S.
Treasury as disgorgement. Respondents will have no right to challenge any
actions that the Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.
Payment of redress to any Affected Consumer under this Consent Order

may not be conditioned on that Affected Consumer waiving any right.
APO RS, AMAR ~ a ots kk RN EP o~ ae
SOOO ROR AMS Miners t fF Cuan 44 FO OP Aen Beare OR
COMPOSITES POE WA RARE EAD EE od Pk PPOs aA Po CARS t

Vu

Effect of Misrepresentation or Omission Regarding Financial Condition

54.

55.

56.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The Bureau’s agreement to issuethis Consent Order is expressly premised
on the truthfulness, accuracy, and completeness of Respondents’ sworn
financial statements and supporting documents submitted to the Bureau on
or about June 25, 2020, July 16, 2020, July 23, 2020, July 30, 2020,
August 3, 2020, August 6, 2020, August 14, 2020, and September 2, 2020,
which Respondents assert are truthful, accurate, and complete.
If the Bureau in its sole discretion determines that Respondents have failed
to disclose any material asset or that any of its financial statements contain
any material misrepresentation or omission, including materially
misstating the value of any asset, then the suspension of the monetary
judgment entered in Section VI will be terminated, andthe Bureau can
seek to enforce in any federal district court as immediately due and payable
the full judgment entered in Section VI of this Consent Order, $9,300,000,
less any amounts paid under Section VI of the Consent Order.
After the reinstatement of the monetary judgment under this Section, the

Bureau will be entitled to interest on the judgment, com puted from the date
57.

58.

59.

60.

of entry of this Consent Order, at the rate prescribed by 28 U.S.C. § 1961,
as amended, on any outstanding amounts not paid.

Vill

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalties

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Under section 1055(c)ofthe CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason ofthe
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, andtaking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondents must pay a
civil money penalty of $1 to the Bureau.
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must pay the civil
money penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited
in the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by section 1017(d) of
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondents must treat the civil money penalty paid under this Consent
Order as a penalty paid to the government for all purposes. Regardless of

how the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondents may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax

benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
SOA RAE RA Ae ~ . A ‘ .
AAO Beem AIS Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaadt 44 /OAFGAsn
eed ey be PS i ore betel Ho PM CE GE Paes rhe of Pe PTeAP yf pag eid

on at ot Pt te AEN Ed tee -

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this
Consent Order.

61. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondents may not argue that Respondents are
entitledto, nor may Respondents benefit by, any offset or reduction of any
compensatory monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer
Action because of the civil money penalty paid in this action. Ifthe court
in any Related Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount
of compensatory monetary remedies imposed against Respondents based
on the civil money penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that
the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondents must, within
30 days after entry ofa final order granting such offset or reduction, notify
the Bureau, and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S.
Treasury. Such a payment will not be considered an additional civil money
penalty and will not changethe amount of the civil money penalty

imposed in this action.
62.

63.

64.

65.

APN PREP RA ~ og pues ee a o me As
SOOO ROR AMS Miners t fF Cuan 44 FO OP Aen Rin Bt at RO
MPR TELS Le PG WA en RARE EAD EE od POPES fo prey ae P SARIS ab ASP wit

IX

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

In the event of any default on Respondents’ obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date
of default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondents must relinquish all dominion, control, and titleto the funds
paid to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returnedto Respondents.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondents, unless they already have done so,
must furnish to the Bureau their taxpayer identification numbers, which
may be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent
amountarising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry ofa final judgment, consent order, or
settlement in a Related Consumer Action, Respondents must notify the
Enforcement Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in
writing. That notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that

Respondents paid or is required to pay to consumers and describe the
66.

67.

ARAM RUS ARAM ~~ a omy wg
2H BER AVS Miners t fF Cla Fa Perfo agen
SoS eT ke x RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od rites : ,

consumers or classes of consumers to whom that redress has been or will
be paid.
COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS

x

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondents must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that
would result in the emergence of a successor com pany; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any actsor
practices subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or
insolvency proceeding by or against Respondents; or a change in
Respondents’ name or address. Respondents must provide this notice, if
practicable, at least 30 days before the development, but in any case no
later than 14 days after the development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must each:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal

addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to communicate

with each Respondent;
68.

69.

SNR POE A mre ~ + 4 pay . a
SAA eee Te Aes Payee cssscamd 4 Cilae 4 4 FOO io: 3a
oe ee ok oe te ee ee POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe RGAE GF pag eid

on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd tee -

. identify all businesses for which each Respondent is the majority owner,

or that each Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their
names, telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet

addresses;

. describe the activities of each such business, including the products and

services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales;

. identify Respondents’ telephone numbers and all email, Internet,

physical, and postal addresses, including all residences; and

. describe in detail Respondents’ involvement in any business for which

they perform services in any capacity or which they wholly or partially

own, including Respondents’ title, role, responsibilities, participation,

authority, control, and ownership.
Respondents must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 66 at least 30 days before the change or as soon
as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the
Effective Date, Respondents must each submit to the Enforcement
Director an accurate written compliance progress report (Compliance

Report), which, at aminimum:
70.

71.

APO PLR ARMAS > . og pues » ek ge PS a ws <A
SOOO ROR AMS Miners t fF Cuan 44 FO OP Aen Dineen BA Af RO
Sao Te WA en RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POPS! of brake ura : AA GP LT et

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondents have
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;

b. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondents have
complied with the Redress Plan; and

c. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section

XI, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XI

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent
Order, sworn under penalty of perjury.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondents, for any business for
which either are the majority owner or directly or indirectly control, must
deliver a copy of this Consent Order to each of its board members and
executive officers, as well as to any managers, employees, Service
Providers, or other agents and representatives who have responsibilities

related to the subject matter of the Consent Order.
72.

73.

74.

SNR POE A mre ~ + 4 pay . a
SAA eee Te Aes Payee cssscamd 4 Cilae 4 4 FOO io: 3a
oe ee ok oe te ee ee POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe RGAE GF pag eid

on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd tee -

For S years from the Effective Date, Respondents, for any business for
which either are the majority owner or which either directly or indirectly
control, must deliver a copy of this Consent Order to any business entity
resulting from any change in structure referred to in Section X, any future
board members and executive officers, as well as to any managers,
employees, Service Providers, or other agents and representatives who will
have responsibilities relatedto the subject matter of the Consent Order
before they assume their responsibilities.

Respondents must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging
receipt of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic
signatures comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. §
7001 et seg., within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy
of this Consent Order underthis Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must provide the
Bureau with a list ofall persons and their titles to whom this Consent
Order was delivered through that date under Paragraphs 71-73 and a copy
of all signed and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent

Order under Paragraph 73.
75.

ARAN PAAR AMAM ~ . 4 omy wg
2H BER AVS Mie issycinmt 4 Cla Fa Perfo agen
SoS eT ke x RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od rites : ,

XII
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondents must create and retain the following business records,
including those records for any business for which either Respondent is a
majority owner or which either directly or indirectly control:
a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with
each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions to the

Bureau.

b. All documents and records pertaining to the Redress Plan, described in

Section VI above.

c. Copies of all sales scripts; training materials; advertisements; websites;
and other marketing materials relating to the subject of this Consent
Order, including any such materials used by a third party on behalf of

Respondents.

d. For each individual Affected Consumer and his or her enrollment in

AutoPayPlus: the consumer’s name, address, phone number, email
address; amount paid, the dateon which the service was purchased; and a
copy of any promotional or welcome materials provided. To the extent

that records of promotional or welcome materials were not maintained
76.

TT,

AYA PER Ate PU aa aun Pees Ao ge QV Pee ee PET LE ey
POS ORE RELOOOS Pocument 7 Pilad t1feofeoso Pana @yY af 38
Bad ae MRP De ON? he BASE EAGER PoE! ob bra cue yOSA er er ee

prior the Effective Date, this requirement is waived. However, after the
Effective Date, Respondents must maintain accurate records of what
promotional or welcome materials are provided to consumers who enroll
in any of Respondents’ programs.
For AutoPayPlus, accounting records showing the gross and net revenues
generated by the service; Respondents must make the documents identified

in Paragraph 75 available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request

XI

Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondents must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re
Robert M. Steenbergh and U.S. Equity Advantage, Inc., File No. 2020-
BCFP-0022,” and send them by overnight courier or first-class mail to
the below address and contemporaneously by email to
Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N. W.
Washington D.C. 20552
78.

79.

SPN PPE Re ~ . pansy » ss
AAO Beem AIS Pree ey ceed of Pilar 44 (OA FSOOA
oe ee ok oe te ee ee POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe RGAE GF pag eid

than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed tee -

XIV

Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondents must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the
identity and location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each
Affected Consumer. Respondents must provide such information in its or
its agents’ possession or control within 30 days of receiving a written
request from the Bureau.

Respondents must cooperate fully with the Bureau in this matter and in
any investigation related to or associated with the conduct described in
Section IV. Respondents must provide truthful and complete information,
evidence, and testimony. Respondents must appear and must causetheir
officers, employees, representatives, or agents to appear for interviews,
discovery, hearings, trials, and any other proceedings that the Bureau may
reasonably request upon 10 days written notice, or other reasonable notice,
at such places and times as the Bureau may designate, without the service

of compulsory process.
80.

81.

82.

SPN PPE Re ~ . 4 pansy . a
SAA eee Te Aes Pree ey ceed of Pilar 44 Pom loy ria
eed ey be PS i ore betel Ho PM CE GE Paes rhe of ye bieep ho: } Rae etd

Bn Se i I Bat RPA TAS Pd eke ,

XV

Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 21 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau,
Respondents must submit additional Compliance Reports or other
requested non-privileged information, related to requirements of this
Consent Order, which must be made under penalty of perjury; provide
sworn testimony related to requirements of this Consent Order and
Respondents’ compliance with those requirements; or produce non-
privileged documents related to requirements of this Consent Order and
Respondents’ compliance with those requirements.

For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondents, unless Respondents retain counsel related to these
communications.

Respondents must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirement of this Consent Order and Respondents compliance with those
requirements any employeeor other person affiliated with Respondents
who has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have

counsel present.
83.

84.

85.

86.

APRON ROR A ~ - 4 guns .
AOL BER AVS Mie issycinmt 4 Cla Fa Perfo agen
Bea te Ee < RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od rites : ,

Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory

process.

XVI

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondents may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to
reporting requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement
Director.

The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) ifhe or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the

Enforcement Director must be in writing.

XVII

Administrative Provisions

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise
prevent the Bureau, or any other governmental agency, from taking any

other action against Respondents, except as described in Paragraph 87.
87.

88.

ARAN PAAR AMAM ~ . 4 ok
2H BER AVS Mie issycinmt 4 Cuan 44 FO OP Aen
SoS eT ke x RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od rites : ,

Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Consent Order
do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any other person or governmental
agency from taking any action against Respondents.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondents from all potential
liability for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted
based on the practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the
extent such practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau
knows about them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the
practices described in this Consent Order in future enforcement actions
against Respondents and affiliates, including, without limitation, to
establish a pattem or practice of violations or the continuation of a pattern
or practice of violations or to calculate the amount of any penalty. This
release does not preclude or affect any right of the Bureau to determine
and ensure compliance with the Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any
violations of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under section 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563,
and expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract

binding the Bureau or the United States.
89.

90.

91.

92.

SNR POE A mre ~ + 4 pay . a
SAA eee Te Aes Payee cssscamd 4 Cilae 4 4 FOO io: 3a
oe ee ok oe te ee ee POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe RGAE GF pag eid

hn Sad ate RP Bat RPA TAS Pd eke :

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time,
except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been
amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its
designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be
based on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondents seek to transfer, sell or assign all or part of its
operations that are subject to this Consent Order, Respondents must, as a
condition of sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee, buyer or
assignee to comply with all applicable provisions of this Consent Order.
The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau.
For any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the
maximum amount of civil money penalties allowed under section 1055(c)
of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the
Bureau to enforce this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau
may serve Respondents wherever Respondents may be found and
Respondents may not contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over

Respondents.
 

2020-BCFP-0022 Document1 Filed 11/20/2020 Page 33 of 33

93. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the
complete agreement between the parties. The parties have madeno
promises, representations, or warranties other than what is contained in
this Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order
and the accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

94. Nothingin this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing the Respondents, officers, or employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.
IT IS SO ORDERED, this [| {jth day of November, 2020.

anor

aninger QO

  

 

Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

33
