Release Number 7854-18
December 10, 2018

Federal Court Orders Defendants to Pay More Than $11 Million in Connection with
Commodity Pool Fraud

Washington, DC — The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced an Order of default judgment
and permanent injunction has been issued against defendants Scott Allensworth (d/b/a Capital Growth Group
Associates and Cobra Development Group LLP), of Newhall, California, and his California company E-Slate, Inc.
(d/b/a Cobra Development Group LLP), Robert J. Fusco, of Henderson, Nevada, and David Weddle of Prospect,
Kentucky, in connection with two separate fraudulent commodity pool trading schemes.

The Order, entered by Judge Consuelo B. Marshall of the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, finds that
the fraudulent schemes spanned over four years and deprived as many as 76 victims of almost $3 million. Most of the
victims were existing tax and retirement-planning clients, who had their relationship of trust, along with their intimate
financial information, exploited. In carrying out the schemes, the defendants fraudulently solicited pool participants,
misappropriated pool participant funds, and fabricated trading statements to prolong and conceal their misconduct.

The Order requires Allensworth, E-Slate, and Fusco, jointly and severally, to pay $268,000.00 in restitution to defrauded
pool participants and a civil monetary penalty of $804,000.00; and requires Allensworth, E-Slate, and Weddle, jointly and
severally, to pay $2,527,874.44 in restitution to defrauded pool participants and a civil monetary penalty of
$7,583,623.32. The Order also imposes permanent trading and registration bans on all the defendants and prohibits
them from committing further violations of the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC Regulations, as charged in the
Complaint filed on October 2, 2017 (see CFTC Complaint and Press Release 7628-17).

The CFTC cautions that orders requiring repayment of funds to victims may not result in the recovery of any money lost
because the wrongdoers may not have sufficient funds or assets. The CFTC will continue to fight vigorously for the
protection of customers to ensure the wrongdoers are held accountable.

The CFTC acknowledges and appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Los Angeles
Regional Office, which filed a related action in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against
Allensworth, Weddle, and Justinfo LLC; the U.S. Attorney’s Office and U.S. Marshals Service for the Central District of
California; and the City of Henderson, Nevada Police Department.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Tom Simek, Jeff Le Riche, Elsie Robinson, James
Humphrey, Joyce Brandt, Christopher Reed, and Charles Marvine.

KOK OK OK OK
CFTC’s Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory, which warns customers about a type of fraud that involves individuals and firms, often
unregistered, offering investments in commodity pools.

Also, before investing or trading with a firm, check the firm’s registration status and disciplinary history, if registered,
with the National Futures Association. A company’s registration status can be found at: NFA Basic.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.
