UNIT ED STATES DISTRICT COURT.

 

 

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
- UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
'. EXCHANGE COMMISSION, Po et
100 F Street, N.E. pA NUMBER LOA MaMa 4d
Washington, DC 20549 Plaintiff | JUDGE: Bolceuvcdoa My Urbina
. - Plaintiff, |
| DECK TYFEs General Civil
7 ov. |
Cs ot | DATE STAMFs O8/06/2007
CHARLES MICHAEL MARTIN, I
- 1502 NorthIvanhoe Street = == of Ss
. Arlington, Virginia22210° Se pe
SO . Defendant. . pe
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff United States Securities and Exchange Commission (ihe “Commission” alleges
for its Complaint against Defendant Charles Michiael Martin ( Martin”) as follows: oo
1. In 2002, Defendant Martin, who was employed by Monsanto o Company (4 ‘Monsanto ’
as its Government Afiaits Director for Asia, authorized and. directed an Indonesian consulting firm
. (Consulting Finn? ”) to. pay a ibe totalitig $50, 000 to: a senior ¢ Indonesian Ministry of Environment
i official ¢ the Senior Environment Officer). The legal payment was made to influence the Senior
¥ Environment Oia to. repeal language in a decree that was “unfavorable to Monsanto’ s business i in
. x ane - Sey Sy : oe Oe, | | ; | ;
/ 2 © : “To generate the fands to make the illegal § $50, 000 payment, and to- conceal the |

ao unfavefl activity, Martin directed the Consiting Firm to create a set of j invoices to falsely bill

nS : Monsanto i in an amount sufficient to cover the illegal payment. Martin subsequent proved the

~—

ue
ON ys
false invoices for payment by Monsanto, and took steps to ensure that Monsanto paid the false
invoices, thereby causing Monsanto’s books and records to be falsified and circumventing
Monsanto’s system of internal accounting controls, which Monsanto was required to devise and
maintain. As a result of Martin’s actions, Monsanto falsely recorded the $50,000 payment in its
books and records as a payment for consulting services when, in fact, it was an illegal payment to the
Senior Environment Official. Even though Martin’s scheme was carried out pursuant to his
instructions and the $50,000 payment was made to the Senior Environment Official, the unfavorable
decree remained in place.

. 3. Through his conduct in devising and orchestrating the illegal payment, Martin
violated, and aided and abetted violations of, the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt —
Practices Act, and the internal controls and books and records provisions of the federal securities
_ laws as described below. By this Complaint, the Commission respectfully requests. that the Court

issue orders permanently enjoining Martin from committing, and from aiding and abetting, .

. violations of the federal securities laws as alleged in this Complaint and directing Martin to pay a
civil monetary penalty.

| JURISDICTION AND VENUE

4. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d)(3), 21(e),

and 27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 USC: §§ 78u(d)(3), 78u(e),

and 78aa]. In connection with the conduct described herein, the defendant, a United States citizen

and national, made use of the mails and a means or instrumentality of interstate commerce

corruptly in furtherance of the acts, practices and courses of business alleged here. _ Martin’s

unlawful conduct involved the offer, promise, authorization, and payment of money to the Senior

Environment Official, a foreign official as defined in Section 30A(f) of the Exchange Act [15

US.C. § 78dd-1(9]. « .
5. Venue lies in the District of Columbia, as certain of the acts, practices, and courses
of conduct constituting the violations of the laws alleged in this Complaint occurred in this
district, where Martin was based during his employment as Monsanto’s Government Affairs
Director for Asia.

DEFENDANT

6. Defendant Martin, age 62, a. United States citizen and national, was Monsanto’s
Government Affairs Director for Asia from August of 1999 until his departure from Monsanto on
December 17, 2002. During his tenure with Monsanto, Martin was based in Washington, D.C.
Martin frequently traveled in and around the Asia Pacific region on behalf of Monsanto.

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

7. Monsanto is a Delaware corporation based in St. Louis, Missouri. Monsanto is a
global producer of technology-based solutions and agricultural products for growers and |
downstream customers in agricultural markets in the United States and. abroad. Monsanto’s
common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 781(b)] and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. On January 6, 2005, the
Commission filed settled enforcement proceedings against Monsanto for violating the anti-bribery

provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and for violating the books and records and

 

internal control provisions of the Exchange Act. SEC v. Monsanto Co., Case No. 1:05CV00014
(D.D.C. Jan. 6, 2005); Monsanto Company, No. 3-11789, Exchange Act Rel. No. 19023 (Jan. 6,
2005).
FACTS
Background
8. Among its agricultural products, Monsanto develops, produces, and markets certain _

genetically-modified organisms (“GMOs”). «GMOs are promoted as being better than

3
conventional crops because they resist disease and pestilence, and produce higher yields. The use
of GMOs, however, has been controversial in some countries, including Indonesia. To increase
acceptance of its GMO crops in Indonesia, Monsanto retained the Consulting Firm, which also
represented other United States companies doing business in Indonesia.

9. An employee of the Consulting Firm (“the Consulting Firm Employee”), who is a
United States citizen and national, led the Monsanto account. The Consulting Firm Employee
worked closely with Martin, who, as Monsanto’s Government Affairs Director for Asia, was
responsible for certain government affairs activities in the Asia Pacific region, including lobbying
for Indonesian legislation favorable to Monsanto’s business interests and monitoring Indonesian
legislation that could potentially negatively impact Monsanto’s business interests.

10. On behalf of Monsanto, Martin and the Consulting Firm Employee lobbied
members of the Indonesian government for legislation and ministerial decrees favorable to GMO
crops. In February of 2001, Monsanto obtained limited approval from Indonesia’s Ministry of
Agriculture allowing farmers in South Sulawesi, Indonesia to grow Bollgard Cotton, one of
Monsanto’s GMO crops.

11. However, later in 2001, the Ministry of Environment issued a decree (“2001
AMDAL Decree”) reiterating Indonesia’s longstanding law requiring an environmental impact
assessment (“AMDAL process”) for industry and buildings, and inserting several lines of text that
made the AMDAL process apply to bio-technology products. As a result of the 2001 AMDAL
Decree, GMOs, such as Monsanto’s Bollgard Cotton, were required, for the first time, to undergo
an AMDAL process before they could be cultivated in Indonesia. As written, the 2001 AMDAL
Decree posed a considerable obstacle to the success of Monsanto’s existing Bollgard Cotton
project and Monsanto’s ability to successfully market other GMOs in Indonesia and elsewhere in

the Asia Pacific region. To remove this obsjacle, Martin focused on lobbying the Senior
Environment Official for repeal of the 2001 AMDAL Decree and gave the Consulting Firm
Employee the specific task of neutralizing the impact of the 2001 AMDAL Decree upon Monsanto
by having the “offensive” language in the 2001 AMDAL Decree removed or repealed.

Martin’s Plan to Bribe the Senior Environment Official

12. Due to a change in administration, in August of 2001, new Indonesian Ministry of
Environment officials were appointed. Martin focused his lobbying efforts on the repeal of the
2001 AMDAL Decree. Martin then met on several occasions with the Consulting Firm Employee
and called the Consulting Firm Employee numerous times concerning the repeal of the 2001
AMDAL Decree. Martin also met on several occasions with the Senior Environment Official.
Throughout the relevant period, the Senior Environment Official was a foreign official within the.
meaning of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

13. Near the end of 2001, it became clear that the lobbying efforts with the Senior
Environment Official were not having any effect. Martin then told the Consulting Firm Employee
to “meentivize” the Senior Environment Official by offering a cash payment of $50,000 to repeal
the “offensive” language in the 2001 AMDAL Decree. |

14. The Consulting Firm Employee discussed Martin’s offer of the $50,000 cash
payment with the Senior Environment Official and understood that the Senior Environment Official
would attempt to repeal the amendment in exchange for the payment. The Consulting Firm
Employee informed Martin of this conversation. Martin directed the Consulting Firm Employee
to proceed with the illegal payment and instructed the Consulting Firm Employee not to speak to
, _ anyone about the illegal payment other than his supervisor at the Consulting Firm and Martin

himself.
Martin Directs the Falsification of Invoices to Fund the Hlegal Payment

15. In order to fund the $50,000 payment, Martin directed the Consulting Firm
Employee to submit. false invoices from the Consulting Firm to Monsanto for consulting services
which, once paid, would generate the funds necessary to carry out the unlawful payment. Martin
sent several e-mails, which were processed on a server located in the United States, to the
Consulting Firm Employee and spoke to him in person and over his cellular phone regarding the
invoicing scheme. Martin instructed the Consulting Firm Employee to create several false
invoices totaling approximately $66,000 (approximately 710,411,600 Indonesian Rupiah), so that
the amount paid by Monsanto would include the sum for the bribe and the amount necessary to
cover the tax consequences when the Consulting Firm reported Monsanto’s payment on those ~
invoices as “consulting fee” income. Martin directed the Consulting Firm Employee to bill -
Monsanto for the hours that the Consulting Firm Employee spent traveling on two trips to St.
Louis, Missouri in December 2001 and January 2002. The false invoices were submitted to
Monsanto in the United States on several weeks prior to the second trip.

16. Martin approved the false invoices for payment. Martin also convinced other
Monsanto managers to approve the invoices for payment, despite Martin’s knowledge that the
invoices were false. By approving the invoices and convincing other Monsanto managers to
approve the invoices, Martin knowingly circumvented Monsanto’s system of internal controls and |
ensured that the false invoices would be inaccurately and improperly recorded by Monsanto as
payment for bona fide consulting services when Martin knew that the sole purpose of the invoices
was to generate the funds for the illegal payment. In early March 2002, the Consulting Firm
received payment on the false invoices from Monsanto.

17.. As a result of Martin’s actions, Monsanto inaccurately recorded the invoices as

payment for consulting services. The improper entry was subsequently included within the
presentation of Monsanto’s 2002 Statement of Consolidated Operations, which was filed with the
_Commission on March 13, 2003 on Form 10-K. | |

| The Illegal Payment is Made to the Senior Environment Official

18. After submitting the false invoices, the Consulting Firm. Employee withdrew
$50,000 from the Consulting Firm’s Indonesian bank account. On or about February 5, 2002, the
Consulting Firm Employee visited the Senior Environment Official at his home. The ‘Consulting
Firm Employee briefly spoke with the Senior Environment Official, informed the Senior
Environment Official that he had the. money, and then gave an envelope containing $50,000 in
$100 bills to the Senior Environment Official. The Consulting Firm Employee then reported back.
to Martin that he had made the illegal payment to the Senior Environment Official. Despite the
cash payment, the Senior Environment Official never repealed the. language within the 2001
AMDAL Decree that required Monsanto’s products to undergo the AMDAL process.

FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Martin Violated Exchange Act Section 30A |

19. Paragraphs 1 through 18 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

20. As described above, Martin, acting on behalf of Monsanto and its subsidiaries,
violated the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as codified at Exchange
Act Section 30A [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1], by making use of ‘the mails or a means or instrumentality
of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to. pay, . or
authorization of the payment of any money, while knowing that all or a portion of such money
would be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, toa foreign official for the purpose of
influencing the official’s acts or decisions, securing an improper advantage, or inducing him to use

his influence, to assist Monsanto in obtaining or retaining business.
4

- a1. _ By reason of the foregoing, Martin violated, and unless restrained and enjoined by
this Court will continue to violate, the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. | |
| SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Martin Aided and Abetted Violations of Exchange Act Section 30A
22. Paragraphs 1 through 21 are realleged and incorporated by reference.
23. As a consequence of the conduct described above, Monsanto violated the anti-.
bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as codified at Exchange Act Section 30A
[15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1], and Martin knowingly and substantially assisted Monsanto in its violations
of these provisions. |

24. By reason of the foregoing, Martin aided and abetted, and unless restrained and
enjoined by this Court will continue to aid and abet, violations of the anti-bribery provisions of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Martin Violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1

25. Paragraphs 1 through 24 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

26. As described more fully above, Martin knowingly circumvented Monsanto’s
system of internal accounting controls, as described in Exchange Act Section 13(0)@)@) [is
U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]. Martin also directly or indirectly falsified, or cause to be falsified,
Monsanto’s books, records or accounts subject to Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) [15 U.S.C. §
78m(b)(2)(A)].

27.  Byreason of the foregoing, Martin violated, and unless restrained and enjoined will
continue to violate, Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5)] and Exchange Act

Rule 13b2-1 [17 C.F.R. § 240:13b2-1]. *
FOURTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Martin Violated Aided and Abetted Violations of Exchange Act
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B)
28. Paragraphs 1 through 27 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

29. As detailed above, Monsanto violated Exchange Act Section 13(6)(2)(A) [15
U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]: by failing to make and keep books and records which, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflected Monsanto’s transactions and disposition of its assets. -
Monsanto also violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain a
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i)
transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
and (ii) transactions were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and to maintain accountability for its assets, Through his conduct as described above,
Martin knowingly provided substantial assistance to Monsanto in its violations of these provisions.

30. By reason of the foregoing, Martin aided and abetted violations of Exchange Act
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B), and unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, will
continue to aid and abet such violations.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF .

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment against Martin that:

1. Permanently restrains and enjoins Martin from violating Exchange Act Sections 30A__

and 13(b)(S) and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, and from aiding and abetting violations

~ of Exchange Act Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B);
2. Orders Martin to pay a civil money penalty pursuant to Exchange Act Sections

21(d)(3) [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)] and 32(c) [15 U.S.C. § 78ff(0)]; and

3. Grants such other and further relief as is just and proper.

Dated: March 6, 2007

Of Counsel:

Respectfully submitted,

—z Sh

Arthur S. Lowry (D.C. Bar #421266)
lowrya@sec.gov

Margaret S. McGuire

meguirem@sec.gov

Attorneys for Plaintiff

United States Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E. ,

Washington, DC 20549-4030

Phone: (202) 551-4918 (Lowry)

Fax: (202) 772-9245 (Lowry)

Christopher R. Conte (D.C. Bar #419774)
Richard W. Grime (D.C. Bar #455550)

Christine E. Neal

10
