Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Technip with FCPA Violations

Technip to Pay $338 Million to Settle SEC and DO) Charges; Brings
Total Sanctions Against Joint Venture Partners to $917 Million

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2010-110

Washington, D.C., June 28, 2010 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today announced a settlement with Technip for multiple violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). The SEC alleged that Technip, a global
engineering, construction and services company based in Paris, France, was
part of a four-company joint venture that bribed Nigerian government officials
over a 10-year period in order to win construction contracts in Nigeria worth
more than $6 billion. The SEC also charged that Technip engaged in books
and records and internal controls violations related to the bribery.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 21578

» SEC Complaint
®* Department of Justice Press Release

 

Technip will pay $98 million to settle the SEC’s charges and deprive the
company of its ill-gotten gains. The firm will pay an additional $240 million
penalty in separate criminal proceedings announced today by the U.S.
Department of Justice. Previously, one of Technip’s joint venture partners,
KBR, Inc., and its former parent Halliburton Co., settled to similar charges.
Together with Technip’s payment, the combined sanctions of $917 million
represent the largest combined settlements ever paid to date to the U.S.
resulting from an FCPA violation. Technip’s American Depository Shares
traded on the New York Stock Exchange from August 2001 to November
2007.

“Bribery was such an accepted practice that the joint venture had a
euphemistically-named ‘Cultural Committee’ where bribes were openly
discussed, approved and memorialized,” said Robert Khuzami, Director of the
SEC’s Division of Enforcement. “All U.S. issuers must comply with anti-bribery
laws.”

Antonia Chion, Associate Director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement,
added, “When Technip became a U.S. issuer in 2001, it had an obligation to
comply with the FCPA. Instead, the complaint alleges that the company
continued with its brazen plan to make bribery payments.”

The SEC alleges that between at least 1995 and 2004, senior executives at
Technip and other members of TSK], a four-company joint venture that
includes KBR, Inc., devised and implemented a scheme to bribe Nigerian
government officials to obtain multi-billion dollar contracts to build liquefied
natural gas (LNG) production facilities. According to the SEC’s complaint, from
the inception of the joint venture, Technip and the other joint venture
partners paid bribes to assist in obtaining the LNG contracts. The joint venture
partners formed a “cultural committee,” comprised of senior sales executives
at each company, to consider how to carry out the bribery scheme. To
conceal the illicit payments, the joint venture entered into sham contracts
with a shell company controlled by a U.K. solicitor and a Japanese trading
company as conduits for the bribes. Total payments to the two agents
exceeded $180 million.

The SEC’s complaint also alleges that Technip’s internal controls failed to
detect or prevent the bribery, and that the company’s records were falsified
as aresult of the bribery scheme. After Technip became a U.S. issuer in
August 2001, it became subject to the FCPA, including the FCPA’s prohibitions
on the payment of anything of value to foreign government officials in order
to obtain or retain business. Although Technip was aware of these
prohibitions, it did not implement adequate controls to ensure compliance
with the FCPA. Instead, its due diligence was a “perfunctory exercise”
conducted so that Technip would have some documentation in its files.

Without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, Technip has consented to
the entry of a court order permanently enjoining it from violating the anti-
bribery, recordkeeping and internal controls provisions in Sections 30A, 13(b)
(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and ordering
Technip to disgorge $98 million in ill-gotten profits derived from the scheme
and prejudgment interest. The proposed settlement is subject to court
approval.

In the related criminal proceeding announced today, the U.S. Department of
Justice filed a criminal action against Technip, charging one count of
conspiring to violate the FCPA and one count of violating the anti-bribery
provisions of the FCPA. Technip has entered into a deferred prosecution
agreement with the DOJ and agreed to pay a criminal penalty of $240 million.

The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Department of
Justice, Fraud Section; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and foreign
authorities in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas. Robert Wilson, Ansu
Banerjee, and Stanley Cichinski conducted the SEC’s investigation, which is
continuing.

See previous related press releases:

e SEC Charges KBR and Halliburton for FCPA Violations (SEC)

e SEC Charges Former CEO of Kellogg, Brown & Root, Inc. With Foreign
Bribery (SEC)

e Two UK Citizens Charged by United States with Bribing Nigerian
Government Officials to Obtain Lucrative Contracts as Part of Joint
Venture Scheme (DO})

e Kellogg Brown & Root LLC Pleads Guilty to Foreign Bribery Charges and
Agrees to Pay $402 Million Criminal Fine (DOJ)

e Former Officer and Director of Global Engineering and Construction
Company Pleads Guilty to Foreign Bribery and Kickback Charges (DOJ)

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Antonia Chion
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, SEC Headquarters
(202) 551-4842

Kara Novaco Brockmeyer
Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, SEC Headquarters
(202) 551-4767

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-110.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 06/28/2010
