UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

 

)
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE _)
COMMISSION, )
100 F. Street, NE )
Washington, D.C. 20549-6030 )
| )
) Assigned To : Sullivan, Emmet G.
v. ) Assign. Date : 5/1 ae
) cription: General Civ!
Novo Nordisk A/S © ) . peseip
Novo Alle )
DK-2880 Bagsvaerd )
‘Denmark )
: )
Defendant. )
)
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), alleges

that:
SUMMARY

1. From approximately 2000 through 2003, Novo Nordisk A/S (“Novo
Nordisk” or the “Company”) violated the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) by paying $1,437,946 in -
kickbacks and agreeing to pay an additional $1,315,454 in kickbacks in connection with
its sale of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the United Nations Oil for Food Program (the
“Program’’). Novo Nordisk, a Danish pharmaceutical company and a leading supplier of
insulin, authorized and peat kickbacks to Iraq in the form of “after-sales service fees” on
sales of its products. Novo Nordisk knew that such payments were prohibited by the

Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions on Iraq.
2. The Oil for Food Program provided humanitarian relief to the Iraqi
population during the time that Iraq was subject to international trade sanctions. The
program allowed Iraq to purchase necessary humanitarian goods and related services
through a U.N. escrow account. However, the kickbacks paid in connection with Novo
Nordisk’s sales of goods to Iraq had the effect of diverting funds out of the escrow
account and were instead paid into Iraqi-controlled accounts at banks in countries such as
Jordan.

3. Because Novo Nordisk paid “after-sales service fees” to Iraq outside of
the confines of the U.N. program, Novo Nordisk failed to accurately record in its books
and records the kickbacks that were authorized for payment to Iraq. Novo Nordisk also
failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls to detect and
prevent such illicit payments.

4. As a result of this conduct, Novo Nordisk violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A)
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C.
§§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)]-

JURISDICTION

5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. Novo Nordisk,
directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce,
of the mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection with the
transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.

6. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act

[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] because Novo Nordisk does business in this judicial district and
certain acts or transactions constituting the violations by Novo Nordisk occurred in this
district.
DEFENDANT

7. Novo Nordisk A/S (“Novo Nordisk”), a Danish company headquartered
in Bagsvaerd, Denmark, specializes in the manufacture and development of
pharmaceutical products and services. Throughout the relevant period, Novo Nordisk’s
American Depositary Receipts were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange
Act and were listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: NVO). During the Oil
for Food Program, Novo Nordisk entered into eleven contracts for which kickbacks were
paid, and two for which kickbacks were promised but not paid.

RELEVANT ENTITIES

8. Regional Office Near East (“RONE”) is based in Athens, Greece and is a
branch of Novo Nordisk. RONE, along with the Near East Office, handled sales to Iraq
under the Program.

9. Near East Office (“NEO”) is based in Amman, Jordan, and is a branch of
Novo Nordisk. NEO, along with RONE, handled sales to Iraq under the Program.

10. Kimadia is the Iraq State Company for the Importation and Distribution
of Drugs and Medical Appliances. During the relevant period, Kimadia, which reported
to the Iraqi Ministry of Health, requested kickbacks from Novo Nordisk.

FACTS
I. The United Nations Oil for Food Program
11. On August 2, 1990, the government of Iraq, under Saddam Hussein,

invaded Kuwait. Four days later the United Nations Security Council voted to enact U.N.
Resolution 661, which prohibited member states from trading in any Iraqi commodities
or products. The United Nations continued to enforce these sanctions until 2003.

12. On April 14, 1995, the United Nations Security Council adopted
Resolution 986, which authorized the Government of Iraq to sell oil on the condition that
the proceeds of all of its oil sales be deposited in a bank account monitored by the United
Nations and used only to purchase designated humanitarian goods for the benefit of the
Iraqi people. In May 1996, the Government of Iraq entered into a written Memorandum
of Understanding to implement Resolution 986.

13. The United Nations Office of Iraq Program, Oil for Food (the “Oil for
Food Program” or “Program”) was subsequently established to administer Iraq’s sale of
oil and purchase of humanitarian goods by Iraq. A special bank account was established
at a bank in New York (the “UN Escrow Account”) to handle the transactions. ‘The
United Nations’ economic sanctions on Iraq remained in place for all trade and
transactions not authorized by the Oil for Food Program.

14. — Starting in the middle of 2000, the Iraqi government made a concerted
effort to subvert the Program by demanding secret kickbacks from its humanitarian goods
suppliers. Although contracts entered into pursuant to the Program were subject to UN
review and approval, the Program gave Iraq discretion to select the companies from
which it purchased goods. A humanitarian supplier would submit a bid for the sale of its
goods. After the Iraqi ministry would accept the bid, the ministry would inform the
supplier of the requirement that the supplier make a secret payment in the form of an

“After-Sales Service Fee” (“ASSF”) to Iraq in order to win the contract. The Iraqi

ministry would also inform the supplier that the ASSF would have to be paid prior to the
goods entering into the country, or the sists would be stopped at the border until the
ASSF payment was paid.

15. Initially, when this scheme first began, suppliers met with the Iraqi
ministries in person and signed a side agreement acknowledging that the supplier would
make the illicit payment.’ By October 2000, this fee was usually ten percent of the total
contract value. Later in the scheme, everyone understood that the ten percent would have
to be paid. Thus, side agreements were no longer needed -- the supplier would simply
increase its original contract bid by ten percent.

16. The supplier would then submit its contract with the inflated contract price
to the UN for approval, and not disclose the ten percent illicit payment, which was in
violations of the Program rules. The supplier would pay the ASSF to Iraq prior to
shipping its goods. Afterwards, the UN Escrow Account would pay the supplier the
inflated contract price for the goods, thus, unknowingly reimbursing the supplier for the
ten percent that the supplier had already provided to Iraq. Asa result of this conduct, the
UN Escrow Account lost the benefit of more than $1 billion.

17. After the United States invaded Iraq in March 2003, at the request of the
provisional government, the UN ceased Iraq’s ASSF scheme. The UN required that all
_ pending contracts that had been inflated by ten percent be amended to reflect the true

contract value of the goods.

 

I The side agreement was not provided to the UN when the Oil for Food contract was submitted and
approved. This was in violations of the Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions against Iraq.
I. Novo Nordisk Makes $1.4 Million in ASSF Payments and Authorizes
Approximately $1.3 Million in Additional ASSF Payments to Iraq

18. | Novo Nordisk manufactures and markets pharmaceutical products and
services worldwide. While the Oil for Food Program was in effect, the Company sold
insulin and other medicines to the Iraq Ministry of Health through Kimadia, the Iraq State -
Company for the Importation and Distribution of Drugs and Medical Appliances.
Beginning in 2000, Kimadia along with various Iraqi ministries began requiring
companies to pay kickbacks in the form of ASSFs to win contracts to supply
humanitarian goods under the Program. Novo Nordisk acquiesced to Kimadia’s demands
and authorized the payment of illegal ASSFs through a third-party agent. Novo
Nordisk’s net profits from the thirteen contracts for which illegal payments were either
made or authorized were $4,321,523.

A. Kimadia Demands Kickbacks from Novo Nordisk

19. Novo Nordisk engaged its long-time Jordan-based agent (“Agent”) to
submit bids on Novo Nordisk’s behalf to Kimadia under the Program. Two branches of
Novo Nordisk -- RONE, based in Athens, Greece, and NEO, based in Amman, Jordan --
handled the sales to Iraq and supplied the Agent with bid prices for each contract. Once
Kimadia accepted Novo Nordisk’s bid, a contract was prepared. The fully-executed
contract between Novo Nordisk and Kimadia was then forwarded to the United Nations
for approval.

20. In late 2000 or early 2001, a Kimadia import manager advised the Agent
that Kimadia required Novo Nordisk to pay a ten percent kickback in order to obtain a
contract under the Program. The Kimadia import manager told the Agent that Novo

Nordisk should increase its prices by ten percent and pay that amount to Kimadia. By
doing so, Novo Nordisk would recover the secret kickback from the U.N. escrow account
when the contract, with the inflated price, was subsequently approved for disbursement
and paid by the U.N. The Kimadia import manager informed the Agent that if Novo

Nordisk did not agree, Novo Nordisk would not be awarded contracts from Kimadia.

B. Novo Nordisk Authorizes Illicit Kickback Payments Through its
Agent

21. The Agent notified NEO’s General Manager (“NEO GM”) and RONE’s
business manager (“RONE Manager”) of Kimadia’s demand. The RONE Manager
discussed the matter with the Vice-President of RONE (“RONE VP”) who in turn
notified a Novo Nordisk Senior Vice President (“Senior VP”). The Senior VP informed a
Novo Nordisk Officer (“Officer A”) of Kimadia’s demand. Officer A rejected the
request to pay Kimadia a ten percent kickback, and instead suggested that Novo Nordisk
find another way. Novo Nordisk suggested to the Kimadia import manager that Novo
Nordisk reduce the price of its medicines by ten percent. However, after the Kimadia
import manager angrily refused the offer, the Senior VP, along with the RONE and NEO
managers authorized the kickbacks to Kimadia despite Officer A’s refusal to do so. On
or about April 2001 and August 2001, respectively, Novo Nordisk paid increased
commissions to its Agent to pay kickbacks to Kimadia. According to the RONE
managers, later kickbacks were also approved by Novo Nordisk.

Cc. Novo Nordisk’s Scheme to Conceal the Kickbacks

22. After Novo Nordisk agreed to Kimadia’s demands, Novo Nordisk
attempted to conceal the conduct. The U.N. contracts were artificially inflated by ten
percent. Novo Nordisk then increased the Agent’s commission from ten percent to

twenty percent so that the Agent could funnel the additional ten percent to Kimadia as a
kickback on Novo Nordisk’s behalf. The Agent’s commission was increased under the
guise that the payment was used to cover the Agent’s increased distribution and
marketing costs. Novo Nordisk advanced the Agent the ten percent kickback prior to the
goods being shipping to Iraq because the Company knew that Iraqi officials would not
allow the goods into the country if the ASSF had not been paid. Given Novo Nordisk
was shipping medicine, it was extremely important that the goods not be delayed at the
Iraqi border. Although the Agent began receiving the twenty percent commission and
paying kickbacks on Novo Nordisk’s behalf in April 2001, Novo Nordisk did not
memorialize the Agent’s commission increase in writing until January 2002. In January
2004, after the U.S. invasion of Iraq and the subsequent halt of the kickback scheme, the
Agent’s commission reverted back to ten percent.

23. Novo Nordisk’s scheme to pay the kickbacks was evidenced in various e-
mails. In a March 2001 e-mail discussing one of the contracts, the RONE Manager
advised the RONE VP and the NEO GM that they had “discussed very carefully the
pricing on this one” due in part to the “requested circular by Iraq for all companies to
increase by 10% and pay-back the money!” Ina May 2001, e-mail between the RONE
Manager and the NEO GM discussing the NEO GM’s response to an annual review for
information on products sold below Novo Nordisk’s minimum selling price requirements,
the RONE Manager suggested listing the Agent’s commission and “maybe even the 10%
that MOH [Ministry of Health] now take [sic]” in the price.

24. Ina June 7, 2001, e-mail from the RONE Manager to the NEO GM, the
RONE Manager stated that the Agent had obtained three contracts for an “increased 10%

in prices to cover the costs of orders for the new system and we have a REAL 10%
increase on top!” He went on to say that this would take_Novo Nordisk’s prices to “a
really acceptable level.” On or about June 7, 2001, the Agent sent the RONE Manager
three original contracts and advised him that the contracts included “an additional 10%
(over and above the 10% already added before).” These e-mails show that Novo Nordisk
artificially inflated its contract prices to cover the illicit ASSFs.

D. Mechanics of the Kickback Scheme

25. Novo Nordisk paid the kickbacks in three ways. Initially, Novo Nordisk
wired the-kickback to the Agent’s account at the Arab Bank in Amman, Jordan as an
advance on his commission. The Agent would then wire the funds to an official Kimadia
account at the Rafidain Bank in Amman, Jordan. After Kimadia received the kickback
payment, the Iraqis authorized the opening. of a letter of credit and then Novo Nordisk
shipped the goods to Iraq. Later, Novo Nordisk informed Kimadia that it could not pay
the ten percent kickback before it received payment from the U.N. as it was not easy for
the Athens office-to authorize large advance payments to the Agent. Thereafter, Kimadia
no longer required the kickback be made upfront, and instead insisted on a bank
guarantee. After receiving authorization from either the RONE or NEO managers, the
Agent opened a bank guarantee from the Arab Bank payable to Kimadia’s account at the
Rafidain Bank in Jordan. Eventually, Kimadia informed Novo Nordisk that it would no
longer accept bank guarantees paid to its account at the Rafidain Bank. Instead, Kimadia
provided Novo Nordisk with an account number where the kickback was to be paid.

26. Altogether, Novo Nordisk made a total of $1,437,946 in improper

kickback payments on eleven contracts through the Agent. Novo Nordisk also agreed to
pay approximately $1,315,454 in ASSFs on two additional contracts. Novo Nordisk
recorded the kickbacks as legitimate commission payments on its books and records.
Ill. Novo Nordisk’s Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

27. Novo Nordisk failed to maintain a system of internal controls sufficient to
ensure that the Company’s transactions under the Oil for Food Program were in
accordance with management’s authorization and to maintain accountability for the
Company’s assets. As discussed above, Novo Nordisk either made or agreed to make
numerous kickback payments, which contravened the Oil for Food Program, U.S. and
international trade sanctions, and its own internal policies.

28. Novo Nordisk knowingly submitted contracts to the U.N. for approval that
were secretly inflated to cover the cost of illegal kickbacks to Iraq. The Company also
increased its agent’s commission as a means to funnel payments to Iraq, while not
accurately reflecting the purpose of those payments on its books and records.
Specifically, Novo Nordisk raised its agent’s commission from ten percent to twenty
percent under the guise of covering the Agent’s increased distribution and marketing
costs. Moreover, RONE wired large sums to the agent with little to no supporting
documentation. Finally, the Company did not memorialize the agent’s increased
commission until January 2002, nine months after the first increased.commission
payment was made. Accordingly, Novo Nordisk failed to devise and maintain an
effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect these violations of the FCPA, as

required by Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).

10
V. Novo Nordisk’s Failure to Properly Maintain Its Books-and Records

29. As described above, Novo Nordisk’s accounting for its Oil for Food
transactions failed properly to record the nature of the Company’s kickback payments.
For all eleven contracts where a kickback was paid, a portion of the Company’s sale price
for goods to Iraq constituted ASSF payments in violations of the U.N. regulations and
trade sanctions. The Company failed to properly designate the kickback payments made
on its Program contracts, instead characterizing them as legitimate commission payments
to its agent. Thus, Novo Nordisk failed to accurately record these payments in its books,
records, and accounts to fairly reflect the transactions.

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
[violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

30. Paragraphs 1 through 29 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

31. As described above, Novo Nordisk, through their officers, agents,
consultants, representatives, and subsidiaries, failed to keep books, records, and accounts,
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and
dispositions of its assets.

32. By reason of the foregoing, Novo Nordisk violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

SECOND CLAIM
[violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]

33. Paragraphs 1 through 32 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

11
34. As described above, with respect to illicit payments made in connection
with Novo Nordisk’s sales to Iraq, Novo Nordisk failed to devise and maintain a system
of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i)
payments were made in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
and (ii) payments were recorded as necessary to maintain accountability for its assets.

35. By reason of the foregoing, Novo Nordisk violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of
the. Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].-

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment:

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining Novo Nordisk from violating
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A)
and (B)];

B. Ordering Novo Nordisk to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment
interest, wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct;

C. Ordering Novo Nordisk to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d)(3)

of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; and

12
Dz. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: Macy Lf, 2009

 

Cheryl J. Scarbofo (D.C: Bar No. 422175)
Tracy L. Pace
Nicole Creola Kelly

Attorneys for Plaintiff,

US. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE

Mail Stop 6030 SPII

Washington, DC 20549-6030

(202) 551-4403 (Scarboro)

13
