Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 21033 / May 11, 2009

Securities & Exchange Commission v. Novo Nordisk A/S, Civil Action
No. 1:09-CV-00862 (D.D.C.) (EGS)

SEC Files Settled Books and Records and Internal Controls Charges
Against Novo Nordisk for Improper Payments to Iraq Under the U.N.
Oil for Food Program

Novo Nordisk Agrees to Pay Over $10 Million in Disgorgement,
Interest, and Penalties

The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act books and records and internal controls charges against Novo
Nordisk in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Novo Nordisk
A/S, a Danish company, specializes in the manufacture and development of
pharmaceutical products and is a leading supplier of insulin worldwide. The
Commission's complaint alleges that from 2000 through 2003, Novo Nordisk
paid $1,437,946 in kickbacks and agreed to pay an additional $1,315,454 in
kickbacks in connection with its sale of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the
United Nations Oil for Food Program (the "Program"). The kickbacks were
characterized as "after-sales service fees" ("ASSFs"), but no bona fide services
were performed. The Program was intended to provide humanitarian relief for
the Iraqi population, which faced severe hardship under international trade
sanctions. The Program required the Iraqi government to purchase
humanitarian goods through a U.N. escrow account. The kickbacks paid by
Novo Nordisk diverted funds out of the escrow account and into Iraqi-
controlled accounts at banks in countries such as Jordan.

According to the Commission's Complaint:

Novo Nordisk engaged its long-time Jordan-based agent to submit bids on
Novo Nordisk's behalf to Kimadia, the Iraq State Company for the Importation
and Distribution of Drugs and Medical Appliances, under the Program. Two
branches of Novo Nordisk — RONE, based in Athens, Greece, and NEO, based
in Amman, Jordan — handled the sales to Iraq and supplied the agent with bid
prices for each contract. In late 2000 or early 2001, a Kimadia import
manager advised the agent that Kimadia required Novo Nordisk to pay a ten
percent kickback in order to obtain a contract under the Program. The
Kimadia import manager told the agent that Novo Nordisk should increase its
prices by ten percent and pay that amount to Kimadia. By doing so, Novo
Nordisk would recover the secret kickback from the U.N. escrow account when
the contract, with the inflated price, was subsequently approved for
disbursement and paid by the U.N.

A Novo Nordisk officer rejected the request to pay Kimadia a ten percent
kickback, and instead suggested that Novo Nordisk find another way. Novo
Nordisk offered to reduce the price of its medicines by ten percent, but the
Kimadia import manager angrily refused the offer. A Novo Nordisk Senior Vice
President, along with RONE and NEO managers authorized the kickbacks to
Kimadia despite the other officer's refusal to do so. On or about April 2001
and August 2001, respectively, Novo Nordisk paid increased commissions to
its agent to pay the kickbacks to Kimadia. The agent's commission was
increased under the guise that the payment was used to cover the agent's
increased distribution and marketing costs. Various e-mails discussed the
scheme to conceal the conduct, and the U.N. contracts were artificially
inflated by ten percent. According to the RONE managers, subsequent
kickbacks were also approved by Novo Nordisk. Altogether, Novo Nordisk
made a total of $1,437,946 in improper kickback payments on eleven
contracts through the agent. Novo Nordisk also agreed to pay approximately
$1,315,454 in ASSFs on two additional contracts. Novo Nordisk recorded the
kickbacks as legitimate commission payments on its books and records.

Novo Nordisk failed to maintain adequate systems of internal controls to
detect and prevent the payments and their accounting for these transactions
failed properly to record the nature of the payments. Novo Nordisk, without
admitting or denying the allegations in the Commission's complaint,
consented to the entry of a final judgment permanently enjoining it from
future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and ordering Novo Nordisk to disgorge $4,321,523 in
profits plus $1,683,556 in pre-judgment interest, and a civil penalty of
$3,025,066. Novo Nordisk will also pay a $9,000,000 penalty pursuant to a
deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, Fraud
Section. The Commission considered remedial acts promptly undertaken by
Novo Nordisk and the cooperation the company afforded the Commission staff
in its investigation.
The Commission's monetary relief in its Oil for Food investigation is now over
$135 million. The investigation is continuing. The Commission acknowledges
the assistance of the Department of Justice, Fraud Section and the United
Nations Independent Inquiry Committee.

» SEC Complaint

http. /www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2009/Ir21033.htm

Home | Previous Page Modified: 05/11/2009
