Release Number 7812-18
September 28, 2018

CFTC Charges Georgia-Based Company and Its Chief Executive with Forex Fraud Involving
Thirty Customers

Washington, DC - The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) filed an enforcement action in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Defendants Lucrative Pips Corporation and its founder and chief
executive officer Kevin Perry, charging the Defendants with commodity fraud and misappropriation related to an
ongoing off-exchange foreign currency (forex) scheme in which they solicited and misappropriated funds totaling at least
$400,000 from at least 30 customers.

Specifically, the CFTC Complaint alleges that from at least December 2016 through the present, Defendants fraudulently
solicited potential and existing customers by making false and misleading claims about their forex trading strategy and
returns. Defendants falsely represented that they were profitably trading forex and promised potential customers that
their accounts would grow in value approximately 200% to 350% in less than sixty days and that the customers’ initial
deposits with Defendants was fully “guaranteed” against trading losses. Defendants, however, did not successfully trade
forex but instead, lost money trading or misappropriated the $400,000 they solicited from customers, according to the
Complaint.

In its continuing litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Defendants, the CFTC
seeks disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, civil monetary penalties, restitution, permanent registration and trading bans, and
a permanent injunction against further violations of the Commodity Exchange Act, as charged.

The CFTC thanks and acknowledges the assistance of the St. Vincent and the Grenadines Financial Services Authority.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this action are Jason Gizzarelli, Patricia Gomersall, Hillary
Van Tassel, Traci Rodriguez, and Paul Hayeck.

OK OK OK OK OK OK K KK

CFTC’s Foreign Currency (Forex) Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Foreign Currency Trading (Forex) Fraud Advisory, which states that the CFTC has witnessed a sharp rise in Forex trading
scams in recent years and helps customers identify this potential fraud.
