UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 71261 / January 9, 2014

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 3525 / January 9, 2014

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15673

 

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
ALCOA INC.,, EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER
I,

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Alcoa Inc. (“Alcoa” or “Respondent”).

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent consents to the Commission’s
jurisdiction over the Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, and to the entry of
this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order’’), as set
forth below.
Hil.

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds' that:

Summary

1. These proceedings arise from violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of
1977 (the “FCPA”) [15 U.S.C. § 78dd] by Respondent Alcoa Inc. (“Alcoa”) concerning alumina
sales to Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. (“Alba”), an aluminum manufacturer owned primarily by the
Kingdom of Bahrain.

2. Between 1989 and 2009, Alcoa of Australia (““AofA”) and Alcoa World Alumina
LLC (“AWA”) (collectively, the “AWAC Subsidiaries”) retained a consultant to act as their
middleman in connection with sales of alumina to Alba and knew or consciously disregarded the
fact that the relationship with the consultant was designed to generate funds that facilitated
corrupt payments to Bahraini officials. The consultant was paid a commission on sales where he
acted as an agent and received a markup on sales where he acted as a purported distributor. On
sales where the consultant acted as a purported distributor, no legitimate services were provided
to justify the role of the consultant as a distributor. The consultant used these funds to enrich
himself and pay bribes to senior government officials of Bahrain.

3. The commission payments to the consultant and the alumina sales to the
consultant made pursuant to the distribution agreements were improperly recorded in Alcoa’s
books and records as legitimate commissions or sales to a distributor and did not accurately
reflect the transactions. The false entries were initially recorded by the AWAC Subsidiaries
which were then consolidated into Alcoa’s books and records. During the relevant period, Alcoa
also lacked sufficient internal controls to prevent and detect the improper payments.

Respondent

4. Alcoa is a corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. Until 2006, Alcoa’s principal place of business was in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
in the Western District of Pennsylvania. In 2006, Alcoa moved its principal place of business to
New York, New York. Alcoa issues and maintains a class of publicly traded securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are traded on the New
York Stock Exchange.

5. Alcoa is a global provider of primary aluminum and fabricated aluminum. Alcoa
is also a global provider of smelter grade alumina, the raw material that is supplied to smelters to

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any

other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
produce aluminum. Alcoa refines alumina from bauxite it extracts from its global mining
operations. Alcoa operates worldwide through subsidiaries and affiliated entities in North
America, Asia, Australia, Europe, South America, Africa and the Caribbean.

Other Relevant Entities and Persons

6. Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals (““AWAC’) is an unincorporated global
bauxite mining and alumina refining enterprise formed in 1995 between Alcoa and Alumina
Limited (“Alumina”), the majority and minority owners of AWAC, respectively. AWAC
operates through a number of affiliated enterprise companies, including AofA and AWA, with
each enterprise company being owned by Alcoa and Alumina in proportion to their respective
ownership interests in the AWAC enterprise. In matters of strategy and policy, the AWAC
enterprise companies receive direction and counsel from a “Strategic Council” that is chaired by
Alcoa. Alcoa controls the Strategic Council and as such the operations and personnel of AWAC
report to Alcoa personnel in New York.

7. Alcoa of Australia Limited (“AofA”) is the AWAC enterprise company that
owns and operates AWAC’s bauxite mining and alumina refining assets in Australia. AofA’s
principal place of business was located in Melbourne, in the state of Victoria, Australia, until
1996, and is now located in Perth, in the state of Western Australia. AofA owns and operates
mines in Western Australia that extract bauxite, which AofA then processes into smelter grade
alumina in refineries it owns and operates. AofA sells the smelter grade alumina to aluminum
smelters it owns in the state of Victoria as well as to customers and alumina traders around the
world. AofA maintains bank accounts in the United States. AofA’s books, records, and
accounts are consolidated into Alcoa’s books and records and reported by Alcoa in its financial
statements.

8. Alcoa World Alumina LLC (“AWA”) is a Limited Liability Company formed
under Delaware law, which maintains its principal place of business in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
in the Western District of Pennsylvania. AWA owns and operates (either directly or indirectly)
bauxite mining and alumina refining assets in North America, Europe, South America, and the
Caribbean. AWA is an AWAC enterprise company. Beginning in or around 2000, executives at
AWA’s offices in Pittsburgh and Knoxville, Tennessee, assumed primary responsibility for all of
AWAC’s relationships with global alumina customers, including Alba. AWA personnel
responsible for these functions reported to Alcoa personnel in New York.

9. Consultant A is an international middleman who resides in London and is a
citizen of Canada, Jordan, and the United Kingdom. Consultant A had close contacts with
certain members of Bahrain’s Royal Family, some of whom were senior officials in the
Government of Bahrain. Consultant A met with Alcoa executives to discuss matters relating to
the relationship with Alba. Consultant A operates through many shell companies, including
Alumet Ltd (“Alumet”) and AA Alumina and Chemicals Ltd (““AAAC’”).

10. Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. (“Alba”) is an aluminum smelter operating in
Bahrain. At the relevant times, the state holding company of the Kingdom of Bahrain, the
Mumtalakat, which was controlled by the Bahrain Ministry of Finance, held 77 percent of the

3
shares of Alba. The Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”), which is majority-owned
and controlled by the government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, held a twenty percent
minority stake in Alba, and three percent of Alba’s shares were held by a German investment
group. The majority of profits earned by Alba belonged to the Mumtalakat, though part of the
profit was permitted to be used by Alba for its operations. The Bahrain Ministry of Finance had
to approve any change in Alba’s capital structure and had to be consulted on any major capital
projects or contracts material to Alba’s operations. Members of the Royal Family of Bahrain and
representatives of the government sat on the Board of Directors of Alba, controlled its Board,
and had primary authority in selecting its chief executive officer and chief financial officer.

Facts

11. — Alcoa’s global bauxite and alumina refining business (the “Alumina Segment”) is
part of the Global Primary Products group, one of Alcoa’s three business lines. The Alumina
Segment operationally consists of multiple subsidiaries. During the relevant time period, the
Alumina Segment reported to the global head of the Global Primary Products group, who was an
executive of Alcoa and reported directly to Alcoa’s CEO.

12. Alcoa exercised control over the Alumina Segment, including the AWAC
Subsidiaries. Alcoa appointed the majority of seats on the AWAC Strategic Council, and the
head of Global Primary Products served as its chair. Alcoa and AofA transferred personnel
between them, including alumina sales staff; Alcoa set the business and financial goals for
AWAC and coordinated the legal, audit, and compliance functions of AWAC; and the AWAC
Subsidiaries’ employees managing the Alba alumina business reported functionally to the global
head of the Alumina Segment. Alba was a significant alumina customer for Alcoa’s Alumina
Segment and during the relevant period, members of Alcoa senior management met both with
Alba officials and Consultant A to discuss matters related to the Alba relationship, including a
proposed joint venture between Alcoa and Alba. During this time, Alcoa was aware that
Consultant A was an agent and distributor with respect to AofA’s sales of alumina to Alba and
that terms of related contracts were reviewed and approved by senior managers of Alcoa’s
Alumina Segment in the United States.

13. From at least 1989 to 2009, AofA supplied alumina to Alba through a series of
multi-year contracts. During this period, Alba was one of Alcoa’s largest alumina customers
purchasing a total of nearly 19 million metric tons beginning with an annual volume of 300,000
metric tons increasing to 1.6 million metric tons.

14. Beginning in approximately 1989, AofA retained Consultant A to assist in long-
term contract negotiations with Alba and Bahraini government officials, including the
negotiation and execution of a new long-term alumina supply agreement in 1990 (the “1990
Supply Agreement.”)

15. By 1996, Consultant A was playing a significant role in the relationship between
the AWAC Subsidiaries and Alba. Around this time, Alba complained to the AWAC
Subsidiaries that it was paying an above-market price for alumina. AofA learned that Alba was
seeking to increase its alumina supply requirements from 600,000 metric tons a year up to

4
970,000 metric tons a year, and that other major global suppliers of alumina were seeking to
capture these additional requirements. The AWAC Subsidiaries’ sales team decided that, to
“comply with business norms in the Middle East[,]” the AWAC Subsidiaries would propose
supplying some of Alba’s alumina through Alumet, which was one of Consultant A’s shell
companies, which would pay the “required commission.” An AofA manager proposed using
Consultant A as the intermediary because Consultant A was “well versed in the normal ways of
Middle East business” and “will keep the various stakeholders in the Alba smelter happy....”

16. Despite the red flags inherent in this arrangement, AofA’s in-house counsel
approved the arrangement without conducting any due diligence or otherwise determining
whether there was a legitimate business purpose for the use of a third party intermediary.

17. The AWAC Subsidiaries’ sales managers traveled to London in August 1996 to
meet with Consultant A to discuss this proposal to route some of AofA’s alumina through
Consultant A’s company for resale to Alba. Upon their return to Australia, an AWA manager
told other members of the AWAC Subsidiaries sales team that:

It feels like we subsidise the Sheiks and end up with a 5 year outcome that is about
$10-15/t lower than the average of the rest of our business.

18. In September 1996, the AWAC Subsidiaries’ sales managers traveled to London
to meet with Alba and Consultant A and agreed to an addendum to the 1990 Supply Agreement
(“1996 Addendum”). Under the 1990 Agreement, AofA was supplying 600,000 metric tons per
year to Alba under a formula pricing structure (as opposed to a “market’-based price). Under
the 1996 Addendum, AofA agreed to supply Alba with an additional 285,000 metric tons per
year through one of Consultant A’s shell companies using a “market’-based price that resulted in
pricing that was, at times, actually below market and allowed Consultant A to mark up his sales
of alumina to Alba.

19. Employees at AWA and AofA either knew or were willfully blind to the high
probability that Consultant A would use his commissions and markup to pay bribes. For
example, in an internal document memorializing the negotiations surrounding the 1996
Addendum, a member of AofA’s alumina sales staff wrote:

The methodology of business in the Middle East is a complex web of interactions
that are necessarily difficult to understand to disguise the payment of commissions.
We have in the past maintained a position of paying our agent a 1% commission on
the basis of the agent work that he has done for us. We have also, however, been
asked by Alba to supply some cargoes through other intermediaries, including our
agent, on various occasions and we can only assume at the purpose this
serves....Given that we want to supply the full tonnage going into the future we
need to fix on the best methodology for us given the commission requirements and
the contract structure.

20. The sales staff was concerned that the monies paid to Consultant A come from
Consultant A’s markup on sales to Alba, rather than through increased commission payments.

5
An AWA manager was concerned that the monies paid to Consultant A not come at AofA’s
expense and that the sales to Consultant A “protect our position.”

21. In 2001, with the coming expiration of the 1990 Supply Agreement and 1996
Addendum, AWA approached Alba to extend and expand the alumina supply relationship. Alba
agreed to extend the existing supply relationship (“2001 Extension’). Following the 2001
Extension, AofA stopped selling alumina directly to Alba; all AofA alumina destined for Alba
was instead routed through AAAC, which was one of Consultant A’s shell companies.

22. In 2004, AofA entered into another distribution agreement with Consultant A that
involved the sale of up to 1.6 million metric tons of alumina to Alba every year through AAAC,

which was a shell company of Consultant A. This arrangement lasted until approximately
December 31, 2009.

23. The 2001 Extension and 2004 purported distributorship agreements facilitated the
corrupt payments by allowing Consultant A to impose an inflated markup on his purported sales
of alumina to Alba and used the markup from those sales to enrich himself and pay bribes to
senior government officials of Bahrain.

24. From 2002 to 2004, AWA caused Consultant A and AAAC, one of his shell
companies to receive in excess of $79 million in markups on alumina sales to Alba. Consultant
A also received a commission under the terms of the 2001 Extension. The 2001 Extension

provided for a commission of 0.125 percent of all payments made by Consultant A to AofA for
alumina. From 2002 to 2004, AofA paid Consultant A “commissions” of $493,509.

25. In 2002, Alcoa was attempting to negotiate a joint venture with Alba, in which
Alcoa would supply Alba with alumina from the AWAC system’s refineries, and, in exchange,
Alba would supply Alcoa with aluminum. Alcoa retained Consultant A to act as a consultant
and to privately lobby a Bahraini government official on behalf of Alcoa, and Alcoa entered a
consulting agreement with Consultant A pursuant to which Consultant A would receive an $8
million “success fee” based on limited specified negotiation “advice and assistance to Alcoa” if
the joint venture were successful.

26. As part of the negotiations, Alcoa proposed a joint venture structure that
contemplated supplying alumina to Alba through a distributor. On or about March 26, 2003, an
in-house attorney in Alcoa’s legal department raised questions about the deal, and requested an
explanation for the role of the distributor. On or about March 27, 2003, AWA sales executive
responded that “[t]he Distributorship rol[e] is something the Bahrain Government wants” and
that Alcoa “shouldn’t get too involved with how the Distributor and the Government interact.
We are currently selling the alumina we supply to Alba through a Distributor.”

27. On September 15, 2003, Alcoa and Alba agreed to a Memorandum of
Understanding (“MOU”) outlining an equity investment by Alcoa in Alba and providing for
alumina to be sold to the Government of Bahrain, as majority shareholder of Alba, “directly or
through an associated company of Alcoa satisfactory to GoB [Government of Bahrain] and
Alcoa.” The MOU was approved by the same Bahraini government official on behalf of Alba

6
that Consultant A had been hired to lobby. Subsequently, the joint venture negotiations fell
through, and Consultant A was never paid the $8 million success fee.

28. By the summer of 2004, AofA was supplying approximately one million metric
tons of alumina annually to Alba, but Consultant A’s companies were invoicing Alba for the
shipments. Unlike a true distributorship, Consultant A’s companies never took possession of the
alumina, assisted with the shipping arrangements, or otherwise performed any legitimate services
for either the AWAC Subsidiaries or Alba. The only function the shell companies provided was
to invoice Alba for the shipments at a significant markup.

29. Alba’s obligations under pre-existing supply arrangements with AofA were set to
expire at the end of 2004. In the summer of 2004, AWA sought to secure a new long term
alumina supply agreement with Alba. On or around August 5, 2004, Alcoa management was
advised by a former senior Alcoa executive who had a relationship with Consultant A that if they
attempted to negotiate a direct contractual relationship between AofA and Alba, rather than
negotiate a supply arrangement through Consultant A and one of his companies, some or all of
Alba’s business could be lost to another alumina supplier.

30. On or about August 19, 2004, AWA management met with Consultant A at
Consultant A’s London Office to discuss using Consultant A’s companies “as Alcoa’s exclusive
distributor in the region.” On or about August 22, 2004, an AWA executive negotiating with
Consultant A sent an email documenting with more specificity certain items that were discussed
at the meeting. Among them, the executive noted that “[W]e agreed to supply [Consultant A]
with pricing indications for supply to [AAAC, one of Consultant A’s shell companies] by 8/24 so
he can have these for his meeting with [a Bahraini official]. We mentioned pricing close to
14%.” The email also noted that “[a Bahraini official] is holding on to publishing [Alba’s]
alumina tender [to the market] until he has further discussions with [Consultant A] on 8/29.”
The pricing terms per metric ton of alumina that the AWA executive quoted to Consultant A at
the meeting in London were less than the pricing terms for Alba that an AWA sales executive
had quoted to a Bahraini official approximately one month earlier.

31. On or around September 29, 2004, AWA facilitated Consultant A’s tendering a
bid to supply Alba up to 1.6 million metric tons of alumina for ten years commencing in 2005.
On or about October 8, 2004, the in-house attorney responsible for supporting the alumina
business suggested terminating the consulting agreement that Alcoa had entered with Consultant
A in connection with the proposed joint venture, as “the terms of [Consultant A’s] current
engagement created a lot of anxiety in the organization.” However, an AWA executive decided
that the consultancy agreement should not be terminated until AofA had secured a new long-term
alumina supply agreement with Alba.

32. On or about November 1, 2004, a Bahraini official caused Alba to accept
Consultant A’s tender offer for a ten-year supply of alumina. On or about December 31, 2004,
AofA entered a sham ten-year distributorship agreement with AAAC, one of Consultant A’s
shell companies to purportedly supply annually up to 1.78 million metric tons of alumina for sale
to Alba from 2005 to 2014 (the “2005 Alba Supply Agreement”). It was actually AofA that
would continue shipping the alumina directly from its refineries in Western Australia to Alba.

7
33. On or about March 4, 2005, a representative of Consultant A sent another
Bahraini government official a final, unexecuted contract for the purported supply agreement
between Consultant A and Alba. On or about June 8, 2005, the final agreement negotiated
between Consultant A and Alba was signed by that government official on behalf of Alba. The
agreement’s effective date was January 1, 2005, and its term was through December 31, 2014.
The agreement provided that Consultant A would supply Alba with 1.508 million metric tons of
alumina in 2005 and 1.6 million metric tons of alumina thereafter for each remaining contract
year. Alba was required to bear the cost of shipping and insurance.

34. For sales of alumina to Alba, Consultant A did not receive payment until after
Consultant A was bound to pay AofA. Given the discrepancy in the timing of payment,
Consultant A sought a line of credit from Alcoa to cover the cost of alumina shipments to Alba
until Alba remitted payment to Consultant A. Alcoa’s policies and procedures required its
customers to submit financial statements for an extension of credit. Consultant A, however,
refused to provide financial statements to Alcoa’s credit department. Nevertheless, in or around
December 2004, senior management of AWA invoked an override procedure that resulted in an
Alcoa executive approving a $23 million line of credit to Consultant A’s companies.

35. Thereafter, in each of contract years 2005 through 2009, Alcoa continued to grant
overrides to extend increasing credit lines to Consultant A’s purported distributorships. By
2007, Alcoa was extending a credit line of $58 million. During this period, Alcoa granted
Consultant A credit lines that were significantly greater than those granted by Alcoa to any other
third party. By facilitating the extension of credit to Consultant A, AWA enabled the purported
distributorship scheme by allowing Consultant A to defer paying AofA for the multi-million
dollar shipments of alumina to Alba until Consultant A received payment from Alba.

36. From 2005 through 2009, AWA caused Consultant A to receive in excess of $188
million on the markup of alumina sales to Alba. This money was transferred from the initial
accounts in which payment from Alba was received through various bank accounts controlled by
Consultant A, including accounts in the name of shell companies.

37. The AWAC Subsidiaries knew or consciously disregarded the fact that Consultant
A was inserted into the Alba sales supply chain to generate funds to pay bribes to Bahraini
officials. Ultimately, these funds facilitated at least $110 million in corrupt payments to Bahraini
officials. The vast majority of those funds were generated from the markup between the price
Consultant A sold to Alba and the price that AofA sold to Consultant A. Those funds were also
generated from the commissions that AofA paid to Consultant A.

38. The recipients of the corrupt payments included a senior Bahraini official,
members of the board of directors of Alba, and senior management of Alba. Examples of the
corrupt payments include:

e In August 2003, Consultant A’s shell companies made 2 payments totaling $7 million to
accounts for the benefit of a Bahraini government official who Consultant A had been
retained to lobby. Two weeks later, Alcoa and Alba signed an agreement in principle to
have Alcoa participate in Alba’s plant expansion.

8
e In October 2004, Consultant A’s shell company paid $1 million to an account for the
benefit of that same government official. Shortly thereafter, Alba agreed in principle to
Alcoa’s offer for the 2005 Alba Supply Agreement.

e In or around the time of the execution of the final 2005 Alba Supply Agreement,
Consultant A-controlled companies paid another Bahraini government official and/or his
beneficiaries $41 million in three payments.

Legal Standards and Violations

C. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any
provision of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person
that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act of omission the person knew or
should have known would contribute to such violation.

FCPA Violations

D. Under Section 30A(a) of the Exchange Act it is unlawful for any issuer, officer,
director, employee, or agent of such issuer or any stockholder thereof acting on behalf of the
issuer, to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly
in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any
money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any
foreign official or any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of
value will be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official for the
purposes of (i) influencing any act or decision of such foreign official in his official capacity, (11)
inducing such foreign official to do or omit to do any act in violation of the lawful duty of such
official, or (111) Securing any improper advantage in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or
retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person. [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1].

E. Additionally, under Section 30A(g) of the Exchange Act it is unlawful for any
issuer organized under the laws of the United States, or a State, territory, possession, or
commonwealth of the United States or for any United States person that is an officer, director,
employee, or agent of such issuer or a stockholder thereof acting on behalf of such issuer, to
corruptly do any act outside the United States in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to
pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or
authorization of the giving of anything of value to any of the persons or entities set forth in
paragraphs (1), (i), and (111) of subsection (a) of this section for the purposes set forth therein,
irrespective of whether such issuer or such officer, director, employee, agent, or stockholder
makes use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in furtherance of
such offer, gift, payment, promise, or authorization.
F, This Order contains no findings that an officer, director or employee of Alcoa
knowingly engaged in the bribe scheme. As described above, Alcoa violated Section 30A of the
Exchange Act by reason of its agents, including subsidiaries AWA and AofA, indirectly paying
bribes to foreign officials in Bahrain in order to obtain or retain business. AWA, AofA, and their
employees all acted as “agents” of Alcoa during the relevant time, and were acting within the
scope of their authority when participating in the bribe scheme. As described above, Alcoa
exercised control over the Alumina Segment, including the AWAC Subsidiaries. Alcoa
appointed the majority of seats on the AWAC Strategic Council, and the head of the Global
Primary Products group served as its chair. Alcoa and AofA transferred personnel between
them, including alumina sales staff; Alcoa set the business and financial goals for AWAC and
coordinated the legal, audit, and compliance functions of AWAC; and the AWAC Subsidiaries’
employees managing the Alba alumina business reported functionally to the global head of the
Alumina Segment. Alba was a significant alumina customer for Alcoa’s Alumina Segment and
during the relevant period, members of Alcoa senior management met both with Alba officials
and Consultant A to discuss matters related to the Alba relationship, including a proposed joint
venture between Alcoa and Alba. During this time, Alcoa was aware that Consultant A was an
agent and distributor with respect to AofA’s sales of alumina to Alba and that terms of related
contracts were reviewed and approved by senior managers of Alcoa’s Alumina Segment in the
United States.

G. Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to make and
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer. [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

H. Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that
(1) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
(11) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (111) access to assets is permitted only in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded
accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and
appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

I. As described above, Alcoa violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by
improperly recording the payments, to Consultant A, as agent commissions when the true
purpose of these payments was to make corrupt payments to Bahraini officials. Alcoa violated
Section 13(b)(2)(A) when Alcoa recorded the sales to Consultant A as a distributor. The false
entries were initially recorded by the AWAC Subsidiaries which were then consolidated and
reported by Alcoa in its consolidated financial statements. Alcoa also violated Section
13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain sufficient accounting controls to detect and prevent
the making of improper payments to foreign officials.

10
Alcoa’s Remedial Efforts

J. Alcoa made an initial voluntary disclosure of certain of these issues to the
Commission and Department of Justice in February 2008, and thereafter Alcoa’s Board of
Directors appointed a Special Committee of the Board of Directors to oversee an internal
investigation by independent counsel. Alcoa’s counsel regularly reported on the results of the
investigation and fully cooperated with the staff of the Commission.

K. Alcoa also undertook extensive remedial actions including: a comprehensive
compliance review of anti-corruption policies and procedures, including its relationship with
intermediaries; enhancing its internal controls and compliance functions; developing and
implementing enhanced FCPA compliance procedures, including the development and
implementation of policies and procedures such as the due diligence and contracting procedure
for intermediaries; and conducting comprehensive anti-corruption training throughout the
organization.

Criminal Plea Agreement

Respondent’s subsidiary AWA has agreed, with the United States Department of Justice,
Criminal Division, Fraud Section, to plead guilty for criminal conduct relating to certain of the
findings in the Order.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent Alcoa’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Alcoa cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A)
and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act;

B. Respondent shall pay disgorgement of $175,000,000. A portion of Respondent’s
disgorgement obligation in the amount of $14,000,000 shall be deemed satisfied by Respondent’s
payment of $14,000,000 in forfeiture as part of Respondent’s resolution with the United States
Department of Justice (“DOJ”) filed in the Western District of Pennsylvania. In the event that
Respondent’s resolution with DOJ requires a forfeiture payment less than $14,000,000, the
Respondent acknowledges that its disgorgement obligation will be credited up to the amount of the
payment required by Respondent’s resolution with DOJ, with the remaining balance due and
payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission within 14 days of payment pursuant to
Respondent’s resolution with DOJ. In light of the impact of the disgorgement payment upon
Respondent’s financial condition and its potential to substantially jeopardize Alcoa’s ability to
fund its sustaining and improving capital expenditures, its ability to invest in research and
development, its ability to fund its pension obligations, and its ability to maintain necessary cash

11
reserves to fund its operations and meet its liabilities, Respondent shall pay the disgorgement in
five equal payments based upon the following schedule:

Amount Date Due

$32,200,000 January 9, 2014
$32,200,000 January 9, 2015
$32,200,000 January 9, 2016
$32,200,000 January 9, 2017
$32,200,000 January 9, 2018

If timely payment of disgorgement is not made within 14 days of when due, additional interest
shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. Payment must be made in one of the following
ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal
money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Alcoa Inc. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles Cain, Deputy Unit Chief,
FCPA Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE,
Washington, DC 20549.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

12
