oN an gee Ait ae athe y cots oo ao Tea les CRORE esa oT a Pee fot ce SS a to

Pesce ey Alb Pee PAPA SAryyarat 2 O bea oe x*& Soa PD FENSR Pot Dae nt
EX EN Sf fae PEAS FT eye iy ate lw few HE A i: : i i Z PNET ‘

Rw SR PU eo LAE ac TEE PAA OO PRS bf POU a Ul

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

HOUSTON DIVISION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
V. ' CRIMINAL NO. 17-CR-618
t
ANTHONY MACE, ’
Defendant. '

PLEA AGREEMENT

The United States of America, by and through Abe Martinez, Acting United States
Attorney, and Suzanne Elmilady, Assistant United States Attorney, and Sandra Moser, Acting
Chief of the Fraud Section of the Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice
(“Fraud Section”) and Dennis R. Kihm, Trial Attorney, and the defendant, Anthony Mace
(“Defendant”), and Defendant’s counsel, pursuant to Rule 11(c)(1)(A) and 11(c)(1)(B) of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, state that they have entered into an agreement, the terms and
conditions of which are as follows:

Defendant’s Agreement

1. Defendant agrees to plead guilty to Count One of the Information. Count One
charges Defendant with conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78dd-2 and 78dd-3 (“FCPA”), in violation of Title 18, United States Code,
Section 371. Defendant, by entering this plea, agrees that he is waiving any right to have the facts
that the law makes essential to the punishment either charged in the Information, or proved to a
jury beyond a reasonable doubt.

Punishment Range
2. The statutory maximum penalty for a violation of Title 18, United States Code,

Section 371, is imprisonment of not more than five years and a fine of not more than $250,000 or
ann aot
Pesce ey Alb Pee PAPA

ROA ¢ faliPat hey =
RR SP LE UU

twice the gross gain or loss. Additionally, Defendant may receive a term of supervised release
after imprisonment of up to three years. See Title 18, United States Code, Sections 3571(b)(3),
3571(d), and 3583(b)(2). Defendant acknowledges and understands that if he should violate the
conditions of any period of supervised release which may be imposed as part of his sentence, then
Defendant may be imprisoned for the entire term of supervised release, without credit for time
already served on the term of supervised release prior to such violation. See Title 18, United
States Code, Section 3583(e)(3). Defendant understands that he cannot have the imposition or
execution of the sentence suspended, nor is he eligible for parole.
Mandatory Special Assessment

3. Pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, section 3013(a)(2)(A), immediately after
sentencing, Defendant will pay to the Clerk of the United States District Court a special assessment
in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per count of conviction. The payment will be by
cashier’s check or money order, payable to the Clerk of the United States District Court, c/o
District Clerk’s Office, P.O. Box 61010, Houston, Texas 77208, Attention: Finance.

Immigration Consequences

4. Defendant recognizes that pleading guilty may have consequences with respect to
his immigration status if he is not a citizen of the United States. Defendant understands that if he
is not a citizen of the United States, by pleading guilty he may be removed from the United States,
denied citizenship, and denied admission to the United States in the future. Defendant’s attorney
has advised Defendant of the potential immigration consequences resulting from Defendant’s plea
of guilty.

Waiver of Appeal and Collateral Review
5. Defendant is aware that Title 28, United States Code, section 1291, and Title 18,

United States Code, section 3742, afford a defendant the right to appeal the conviction and

2
sentence imposed. Defendant is also aware that Title 28, United States Code, section 2255, affords
the right to contest or “collaterally attack” a conviction or sentence after the judgment of conviction
and sentence has become final. Defendant knowingly and voluntarily waives the right to appeal or
“collaterally attack” the conviction and sentence, except that Defendant does not waive the right
to raise a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel on direct appeal, if otherwise permitted, or on
collateral review in a motion under Title 28, United States Code, section 2255. In the event
Defendant files a notice of appeal following the imposition of the sentence or later collaterally
attacks his conviction or sentence, the United States will assert its rights under this agreement and
seek specific performance of these waivers.

| 6. Defendant waives all defenses based on venue, speedy trial under the Constitution
and Speedy Trial Act, and the statute of limitations, in the event that (a) Defendant’s conviction is
later vacated for any reason, (b) Defendant violates any provision of this Agreement, or
(c) Defendant’s plea is later withdrawn.

7. In agreeing to these waivers, Defendant is aware that a sentence has not yet been
determined by the Court. Defendant is also aware that any estimate of the possible sentencing
range under the sentencing guidelines that he may have received from his counsel, the United
States or the Probation Office, is a prediction and not a promise, did not induce his guilty plea, and
is not binding on the United States, the Probation Office or the Court. The United States does not
make any promise or representation concerning what sentence the defendant will receive.
Defendant further understands and agrees that the United States Sentencing Guidelines are
“effectively advisory” to the Court. See United States y Booker, 543 U.S. 220 (2005).
Accordingly, Defendant understands that, although the Court must consult the Sentencing

Guidelines and must take them into account when sentencing Defendant, the Court is not bound
to follow the Sentencing Guidelines nor sentence Defendant within the calculated guideline

range.

8. Defendant understands and agrees that each and all waivers contained in the
Agreement are made in exchange for the concessions made by the United States in this plea
agreement.

The United States’ Agreements

9. The United States agrees to each of the following:

@) At the time of sentencing, the United States agrees not to oppose

Defendant’s anticipated request to the Court and the United States Probation Office

that he receive a two (2) level downward adjustment pursuant to section 3E1.1(a)

of the United States Sentencing Guidelines, should Defendant accept responsibility

as contemplated by the Sentencing Guidelines; and

(b) If Defendant qualifies for an adjustment under section 3E1.1(a) of

the United States Sentencing Guidelines, the United States agrees not to oppose

Defendant’s request for an additional one-level departure based on the timeliness

of the plea or the expeditious manner in which Defendant provided complete

information regarding his role in the offense (if Defendant’s offense level is 16 or

greater).
Agreement Binding - Southern District of Texas and Fraud Section Only

10. The United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas and the
Fraud Section agree that they will not further criminally prosecute Defendant for offenses arising
from conduct charged in the Information. This plea agreement binds only the United States
Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, the Fraud Section, and the Defendant. It does not bind

any other United States Attorney’s Office or any other unit of the Department of Justice.

4
The United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas and the Fraud Section will
bring this plea agreement and the full extent of Defendant’s cooperation to the attention of other
prosecuting offices, including prosecution offices in foreign countries, if requested.
United States’ Non-Waiver of Appeal

ll. The United States reserves the right to carry out its responsibilities under guidelines

sentencing. Specifically, the United States reserves the right:
@) to bring its version of the facts of this case, including its evidence
file and any investigative files, to the attention of the Probation Office in connection

with that office’s preparation of a presentence report;

(b) to set forth or dispute sentencing factors or facts material to
sentencing;
© to seek resolution of such factors or facts in conference with

Defendant’s counsel and the Probation Office;
@ to file a pleading relating to these issues, in accordance with section
6A1.2 of the United States Sentencing Guidelines and Title 18, United States Code,
section 3553(a); and
© to appeal the sentence imposed or the manner in which it was
determined.
Sentence Determination
12. Defendant is aware that the sentence will be imposed after consideration of the
United States Sentencing Guidelines and Policy Statements, which are only advisory, as well as
the provisions of Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553(a). Defendant nonetheless
acknowledges and agrees that the Court has authority to impose any sentence up to and including
the statutory maximum set for the offense(s) to which Defendant pleads guilty, and that the

5
sentence to be imposed is within the sole discretion of the sentencing judge after the Court has
consulted the applicable Sentencing Guidelines. Defendant understands and agrees that the parties’
positions regarding the application of the Sentencing Guidelines do not bind the Court and that the
sentence imposed is within the discretion of the sentencing judge. If the Court should impose any
sentence up to the maximum established by statute, or should the Court order any or all of the
sentences imposed to run consecutively, Defendant cannot, for that reason alone, withdraw a guilty
plea, and will remain bound to fulfill all of the obligations under this plea agreement.
Rights at Trial

13. Defendant understands that by entering into this agreement, he surrenders certain
rights as provided in this plea agreement. Defendant understands that the rights of a defendant
include the following:

@) If Defendant persisted in a plea of not guilty to the charges,

defendant would have the right to a speedy jury trial with the assistance of counsel.

The trial may be conducted by a judge sitting without a jury if Defendant, the

United States, and the court all agree.

(b) At a trial, the United States would be required to present witnesses

and other evidence against Defendant. Defendant would have the opportunity to

confront those witnesses and his attorney would be allowed to cross-examine them.

In turn, Defendant could, but would not be required to, present witnesses and other

evidence on his own behalf. If the witnesses for Defendant would not appear

voluntarily, he could require their attendance through the subpoena power of the

court; and
© At a trial, Defendant could rely on a privilege against self-
incrimination and decline to testify, and no inference of guilt could be drawn from

such refusal to testify. However, if Defendant desired to do so, he could testify on

his own behalf.

Factual Basis for Guilty Plea

14. Defendant is pleading guilty because he is in fact guilty of the charge contained in
Count One of the Information. If this case were to proceed to trial, the United States could prove
each element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt. The following facts, among others would
be offered to establish Defendant’s guilt:

From in or around April 2008 until in or around December 2011, Defendant was CEO of
“Oil Services Company.” “Oil Services Company,” an entity whose identity is known to
Defendant, was a publicly-traded company in the Netherlands, headquartered in Amsterdam, with
other principal offices in Monaco, Marly, Switzerland and Houston, Texas, and subsidiaries in
Houston, Texas. Oil Services Company specialized in designing, constructing, and providing
offshore oil and gas drilling equipment, including Floating Production Storage and Offloading
vessels (““FPSO”s), to, among others, state-owned and state-controlled oil and gas companies,
including Petréleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”), the state-owned and state-controlled oil company
for Brazil; Petroléos de Guinea Ecuatorial (“GEPetrol”), the state-owned and state- controlled oil
company for Equatorial Guinea; and Sociedade Nacional de Combustiveis de Angola, E.P.
(“Sonangol”), the state-owned and state-controlled oil company for Angola.

While Defendant was CEO, he was also a Board Member for one of Oil Services
Company’s wholly-owned Houston, Texas-based subsidiaries, “U.S. Subsidiary 1.” U/S.
Subsidiary 1 was responsible for certain engineering projects, but also supported Oil Services
Company’s worldwide operations, including its marketing and sales operations.

7
“Executive 1” was a high-level executive at Oil Services Company from 2004 until 2008.

“Executive 3” was a high-level executive in Oil Services Company’s Marketing and
Sales Department from 2000 until 2008.

“Intermediary 1” was a Brazil-based oil and gas services intermediary that operated as Oil
Services Company’s sales agent in Brazil from 1996 until 2012.

Beginning by at least in or around 1996, before Defendant became CEO, Oil Services
Company, U.S. Subsidiary, certain principals and employees of Oil Services Company, including
Executive 1 and Executive 3, certain of Oil Services Company’s sales agents, including
Intermediary 1’s owner, and others entered into an agreement to pay bribes to foreign officials,
including officials at Petrobras, Sonangol and, GEPetrol, in order to obtain or retain business for
Oil Services Company, in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

In April 2008, Defendant became CEO of Oil Services Company. As CEO, Defendant held
oversight authority over the entire company, including its Marketing and Sales Department.
Further, Defendant was required to personally approve payments exceeding a certain dollar
amount, including those made to outside sales agents.

At the time Defendant became CEO, he was aware that paying bribes to foreign officials
was a crime under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and that Oil Services Company was operating
in countries with a high risk of corruption. Despite this, Defendant joined the conspiracy by
continuing to make payments that furthered the bribery scheme and deliberately avoiding learning
that certain payments, including payments Defendant authorized and approved, were in fact bribes

paid to foreign officials. Defendant’s deliberate avoidance was solely and entirely due to his own

actions and decisions.
Pango OE ee PREREDOTOO Mya sat TO Tea les CRORE esa oT a Pee fot ce Sen Loa
Perey Alb Po ese PAPA a? SN PRP EEE 7 bea oe x*& came ft fi ri? Dae nt
SATE ¢ Parr at We FS See iy Sh Te ae BE ay * > , i att ’ ASN CENT OT A
A SRP GE a To POA OE PU nf Pate so IG
x

Beginning by in or around the fall of 2008, Defendant was in possession of a spreadsheet
reflecting over $16 million in payments to five individuals to be paid through a company controlled
by Executive 3. Defendant was aware of a high risk that those individuals were either Equatorial
Guinean officials or persons receiving money on behalf or at the direction of such officials.

Defendant nevertheless authorized the following transfers from a bank account in the United

Kingdom under Oil Services Company’s control, through a bank account in the United States, to

a Switzerland-based bank account controlled by Executive 3:

October 29, 2009 $3,637,150
il 29, 2010 $645,150

ber 21, 2010 $645,150
March 30, 2011 $645,150
December 2, 2011 $12,489,400

 

Defendant updated the spreadsheet to reflect that the payments were made.

Beginning in or around November 2008, Defendant continued a practice that was instituted
before he became CEO, which was to authorize Oil Services Company’s finance department to
issue split payments to Intermediary 1. Specifically, Defendant authorized a portion of
Intermediary 1°s commission paid to an account in Brazil, and another portion of Intermediary 1’s

commission paid to accounts in Switzerland, which were held in the name of shell companies.
Defendant deliberately avoided learning the ultimate recipients of those payments, which were, in

fact, employees of Petrobras.

November 24, 2008 $1,756,65 $3,513,3

12, 2009 $597,5 $1,195,
A 4, 2010 $ $1,656,391
December 15, 2011 $33,022.72 $66,045.45
December 27, 2011 $ $859,875.6

 
   

Breach of Plea Agreement

15. If Defendant should fail in any way to fulfill completely all of the obligations under
this plea agreement, the United States will be released from its obligations under the plea
agreement, and Defendant’s plea and sentence will stand. If at any time Defendant retains,
conceals, or disposes of assets in violation of this plea agreement, or if Defendant knowingly
withholds evidence or is otherwise not completely truthful with the United States, then the United
States may move the Court to set aside the guilty plea and reinstate prosecution. Any information
and documents that have been disclosed by Defendant, whether prior to or subsequent to this plea
agreement, and all leads derived therefrom, will be used against defendant in any prosecution.

Fines — Generally

16. This Plea Agreement is being entered into by the United States on the basis of
Defendant’s express representation that he will make a full and complete disclosure of all assets
over which he exercises direct or indirect control, or in which he has any financial interest.
Defendant agrees not to dispose of any assets or take any action that would effect a transfer of
property in which he has an interest, unless Defendant obtains the prior written permission of the
United States.

17. Defendant agrees to make complete financial disclosure by truthfully executing a
sworn financial statement (Form OBD-500 or similar form) within 14 days of signing this plea
agreement. Defendant agrees to authorize the release of all financial information requested by the
United States, including, but not limited to, executing authorization forms permitting the United
States to obtain tax information, bank account records, credit histories, and social security

information. Defendant agrees to discuss and answer any questions by the United States relating

to Defendant’s complete financial disclosure.

10
 

te
Fe,
anon

 

18. Defendant agrees to take all steps necessary to pass clear title to assets to the United
States and to assist fully in the collection of fines, including, but not limited to, surrendering title,
executing a warranty deed, signing a consent decree, and signing any other documents necessary
to effectuate such transfer. Defendant also agrees to direct any banks which have custody of his
assets to deliver all funds and records of such assets to the United States.

Fines

19. Defendant understands that under the Sentencing Guidelines the Court is permitted
to order Defendant to pay a fine that is sufficient to reimburse the government for the costs of any
imprisonment or term of supervised release, if any. Defendant agrees that any fine imposed by the
Court will be due and payable immediately, and Defendant will not attempt to avoid or delay
payment. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 above, Defendant waives the right to challenge
the fine in any manner, including by direct appeal or in a collateral proceeding.

Complete Agreement

20. This written plea agreement, consisting of 14 pages, including the attached
addendum of Defendant and his attorney, constitutes the complete plea agreement between the
United States, Defendant, and Defendant’s counsel. No promises or representations have been
made by the United States except as set forth in writing in this plea agreement. Defendant
acknowledges that no threats have been made against him and that he is pleading guilty freely and

voluntarily because he is guilty.

11
 

 

 

 
    
  

Case 4 cr-G0618 Dacument is edin FXSO on P1/ae Page 12 af ia
21. Any modification of this plea agreement must be in writing and signed by all
parties.
Filed at Houston, Texas, on Nisvembee F , 2017.
ANTHONY¥YMACE
Defendant
Subscribed and sworn to before me on Nivembee J , 2017.
DAVID J. BRADLEY, Clerk
UNITED STATES DISTRICT CLERK
“Onn Wi - Cec dene
By:_ Deputy United States District Clerk
APPROVED:
Abe Martinez Sandra Moser
Acting United States Attorney Acting Chief
Southern District of Texas Criminal Division, Fraud Section
United States De ent of Justice
4s

4

   

By:

 

Suzanne Elmilady Dennis R. Kihm

Assistant United States Attorney Trial Attorney

Southern District of Texas Criminal Division, Fraud Section
Telephone: (713) 567-9342 (202) 616-2999

         
 
  

     

 

Ld A SG rh q
Anthony Mace NicolAs Bourtin, Fsq.
Defendant Attorney for Defendant

12
UNITED STATES DISTRICT
COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS HOUSTON DIVISION

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA '

!

v. ' CRIMINAL NO. 17-CR-618
ANTHONY MACE, '
Defendant. '
PLEA AGREEMENT --
ADDENDUM

I have fully explained to Defendant his rights with respect to the pending Information. I
have reviewed the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual
and Policy Statements and I have fully and carefully explained to Defendant the provisions of
those Guidelines which may apply in this case. I have also explained to Defendant that the
Sentencing Guidelines are only advisory and the court may sentence Defendant up to the
maximum allowed by statute per count of conviction. Further, I have carefully reviewed every
part of this plea agreement with Defendant. To my knowledge, Defendant’s decision to enter

into this agreement is an informed and voluntary one.

nlahy
7 Tt

Date

 

13
   

I have consulted with my attorney and fully understand all my rights with respect to the
indictment pending against me. My attorney has fully explained, and I understand, all my rights

with respect to the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual

which may apply in my case. I have read and carefully reviewed every part of this plea

agreement with my attorney. I understand this agreement and I voluntarily agree to its terms.

uta lig
{+—

ANTHONYMACE Date
Defendant

14
