UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the (— RECEIVED CFTC )
so

 

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

 

 

 

) Office of Proceedings
In the Matter of: ) Proceedings Clerk
) 10:30 am, Jul. 20, 2017
ARTHUR TOOLE ITI, ) NG )
BILLIONAIRE INVESTOR ) CFTC Docket No. 17-19
GROUP LLC, THE TOOLE )
GROUP INC., and CATALYST )
TRADERS LLC )
)
Respondents. )

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from in or about February 2011 through at least January 2016 (the “Relevant Period”), Arthur
Toole III (“Toole”), Billionaire Investor Group LLC (“BIG”), The Toole Group Inc. (“Toole
Group’’), and Catalyst Traders LLC (“Catalyst”) (collectively “Respondents’’) violated Sections
4b(a)(1), 40(1) and 4m(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the “Act’’), 7 U.S.C. §§
6b(a)(1), 60(1) and 6m(1)(2012), and Commission Regulation (“Regulation’’) 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R.
§ 4.20(c) (2016). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether
Respondents engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order
should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondents consent to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (‘Order’) and
acknowledge service of this Order.’

 

Respondents consent to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding and in any
other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party; provided, however, that
Respondents do not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the
Offer, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in
Il.
The Commission finds the following:

A. SUMMARY

During the Relevant Period, Toole operated three separate, commodity pools and
solicited or accepted approximately $375,144.90 from pool participants for the purpose of
trading on-exchange commodity futures. Toole defrauded these pool participants by
misappropriating over $244,000 in customer funds and mispresenting the pools’ trading results
to some of the pool participants. In addition, Toole acted as an unregistered Commodity Pool
Operator (“CPO”) and engaged in prohibited commingling of pool funds that he managed with
his personal funds and other non-poo! funds. Respondents BIG, Toole Group, and Catalyst are
companies that Toole formed and in whose names Toole solicited pool participants. Because
Toole was an officer and agent of these three entities and his violative acts were within the scope
of his employment or office, these three companies are liable as Toole’s principal for the
violations Toole committed as their agent.

B. RESPONDENTS

Arthur Toole III is an Atlanta, Georgia resident and during the Relevant Period also resided
in San Antonio, Texas. Toole has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

Billionaire Investor Group LLC was incorporated in February 2011 as a Texas limited
liability company and its last known business address was in San Antonio, Texas. Toole is the
Manager and sole owner of BIG. BIG has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

The Toole Group Ine. was incorporated in December 2011 in Texas and its last known
business address was in San Antonio, Texas. Toole is the Director and Chief Executive Officer
and sole owner of The Toole Group. Toole Group has never been registered with the
Commission in any capacity.

Catalyst Traders LLC was incorporated in January 2014 as a Georgia limited liability
company and its last known business address was in Lilburn, Georgia. Toole is the Managing
Member and sole owner of Catalyst. Catalyst has never been registered with the Commission in
any capacity.

Cc. FACTS

During the Relevant Period, Toole operated three commodity pools each of which had
between 4-14 participants. During the Relevant Period, Toole primarily traded Chicago
Mercantile Exchange (“CME”) Euro FX futures and E-Mini Dow futures (“Dow futures”)
contracts on behalf of these three pools. Toole’s trading was net unprofitable nearly every month
he traded during the Relevant Period.

 

bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of this Order. Nor do Respondents consent to the use of the Offer or this Order,
or the findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other proceeding.
In or around February 2011, Toole formed BIG in San Antonio, Texas, and solicited or
accepted approximately $157,900 from 14 pool participants for the purpose of trading in Euro
FX and Dow futures. Between January and August 2012, Toole used approximately $55,712.76
of BIG pool funds to trade Euro FX and Dow futures but his trading was overall unprofitable
nearly every month. Toole misappropriated approximately $102,188 of BIG pool funds for
personal and non-trading expenses. Toole also sent some of the BIG pool participants false
account statements which failed to reflect the misappropriations and the pool’s trading losses.
Toole only returned approximately $61,128.12 to the BIG pool participants.

In or around December 2012, Toole formed Toole Group in San Antonio, Texas, and
eventually solicited or accepted approximately $159,000 from 6 pool participants for the purpose
of trading in Euro FX and Dow futures. Between January 2013 and March 2014, Toole used
approximately $55,400 of pool funds to trade Euro FX and Dow futures. Toole’s trading was
again net unprofitable nearly every month. Toole misappropriated approximately $103,600 from
this pool for personal and non-trading expenses, which included payments to BIG pool
participants in the manner of a Ponzi scheme. Toole also sent some of Toole Group pool
participants false account statements that failed to reflect his misappropriations and the pool’s
trading losses. Toole only returned approximately $14,000 to the Toole Group pool participants.

In or around January 2014, Toole formed Catalyst in Lilburn, Georgia, and solicited or
accepted approximately $58,244.90 from four pool participants for the purpose of trading in
Euro FX and Dow futures. Between March 2014 and January 2016, Toole used approximately
$20,000 to trade Euro FX and Dow futures contracts on behalf of this pool and his trading was
again net unprofitable nearly every month. Toole misappropriated approximately $38,244.90
from the Catalyst pool participants for personal and non-trading expenses. Toole also sent some
of the Catalyst pool participants false account statements which showed profits instead of the
actual losses for the pool and failed to disclose the misappropriated amounts. In January 2016,
Toole emailed the Catalyst pool participants about large trading losses that wiped out the trading
account but inflated the assets and losses of Catalyst in order to garner sympathy and deflect
customer redemption requests. Toole never disclosed to the Catalyst pool participants that he
had misappropriated more than half of the pool’s assets. Toole only returned approximately
$6,875 to the pool participants.

In aggregate, during the Relevant Period Toole solicited or accepted approximately
$375,144.90 for all three pools and misappropriated approximately $244,032.90 of pool funds.
Pool participants’ total net losses, the difference between the amount participants invested and
the amount returned to them by Respondents, is approximately $293,141.78.

In addition, during the Relevant Period, Toole commingled the assets of all three pools
with non-pool property, such as his own funds, funds from personal loans, and income from
other businesses.

Toole was the sole principal and officer of BIG, Toole Group, and Catalyst and his
actions described herein were within the scope of his employment or office.
IV.

LEGAL DISCUSSION
A. Respondent Toole Defrauded Others in Connection with Commodity Futures

Transactions

During the Relevant Period, in connection with commodity futures transactions made or to
be made or subject to the rules of a designated contract market, for or on behalf of others who
provided funds to the Respondents for the purpose of trading commodity futures, Toole cheated,
defrauded, or attempted to cheat or defraud such persons in regard to orders or contracts or the
disposition or execution of orders or contracts, or in regards to any act of agency performed by
Toole with respect to such orders or contracts, with such pool participants, in violation of Sections
4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C) (2012). To establish liability for fraud, the
Commission must prove: “(1) the making of a misrepresentation, misleading statement, or a
deceptive omission; (2) scienter; and (3) materiality.” CFTC v. R.J. Fitzgerald & Co., 310 F.3d
1321, 1328 (11th Cir.2002). Scienter is met when respondent’s conduct involves “highly
unreasonable omissions or misrepresentations .., that present a danger of misleading [customers]
which is either known to the [respondent] or so obvious that [respondent] must have been aware of
it.” Jd, “A representation or omission is ‘material’ if a reasonable investor would consider it
important in deciding whether to make an investment.” /d. at 1328-29. Misappropriation of
customers’ monies also violates Section 4b of the Act. See In re Slusser, [1998-1999 Transfer
Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) § 27,701, (CFTC July 19, 1999) (respondents violated Section
4b of the Act by surreptitiously retaining money in their own bank accounts that should have been
traded on behalf of the investors), aff'd in relevant part sub nom. Slusser v. CFTC, 210 F.3d 783
(7th Cir. 2000); CFTC v. Morse, 762 F.2d 60, 62 (8th Cir. 1985) (recognizing that defendant's use
of customer funds for personal use violated Section 4b of the Act).

During the Relevant Period, Respondent Toole violated Section 4b(a)(1) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. § 6b(a)(1), by misappropriating funds from others for personal and non-trading related
expenses. For example, Respondent Toole used pool funds to pay for personal meals,
entertainment, consumer goods and Ponzi payments to earlier pool participants. During the
Relevant Period, Toole misappropriated over 50% of the total funds that were raised for the three
commodity pools. Moreover, Toole knowingly or recklessly made material misrepresentations
by emailing certain investors fraudulent statements that misrepresented trading results and pool
assets and failed to disclose his misappropriations.

B. Respondent Toole Acted as a CPO and Defrauded Pool Participants

During the Relevant Period, Toole acted as a CPO by soliciting, accepting, or receiving
funds from participants in a pooled investment trust, syndicate or similar form of enterprise and for
the purpose of trading in commodity interests, including Euro FX and Dow futures. 17 C.F.R. §
la(11). Sections 40(1)(A)-(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 60(1)(A)-(B) (2012), makes it unlawful for
a CPO, by use of the mails or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly, to
employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any pool participant or prospective pool
participant, or to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a
fraud or deceit upon any pool participant or prospective pool participant. The same conduct that
constitute violations of Section 4b(a)(1) of the Act, as described above, also constitute violations
of Section 40(1) of the Act. See, e.g., CFTC v Skorupskas, 605 F.Supp. 923, 932-33 (E.D. Mich.
1985). However, proof of scienter is not required under Section 40(1)(B) of the Act. Jn re Kolter,
Comm. Fut. L. Rep. J 26,262, 1994 WL 621595 at *7 (CFTC Nov. 8, 1994). While using the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, namely e-mails and electronic bank transactions, Toole,
acting as a CPO, knowingly or recklessly sent false statements to pool participants and
misappropriated pool funds and thus violated Section 40(1) of the Act.

Cc. Respondent Toole Acted as an Unregistered CPO

During the Relevant Period, Toole acted as an unregistered CPO in violation of Section
4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1), by engaging in a business that is in the nature of an
investment trust, syndicate or similar form of enterprise, and in connection therewith, solicited,
accepted, or received funds, securities, or property for the purpose of trading in commodity
interests without registering as a CPO. Moreover, Toole did not satisfy the requirements for any
exemption from such registration and therefore acted as an unregistered CPO in violation of
Section 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1).

D. Respondent Toole Commingled Pool Funds

Regulation 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(c) (2016), prohibits CPOs, whether registered or
not, from commingling the property of any pool that it operates or intends to operate with the
property of any other person. On numerous occasions during the Relevant Period, Respondent
Toole commingled pool property with his own property by (a) transferring funds to and from the
pools’ bank accounts to Toole’s bank accounts, (b) depositing funds from personal loans into the
pools’ bank accounts, and (c) depositing income from Toole’s other business into the pools’
bank accounts. Because Toole commingled pool property with his own property, he violated
Regulation 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(c) (2016).

E. Respondents BIG, Toole Group and Catalyst are Liable for Toole’s Violations

During the Relevant Period, Toole was the sole principal and owner of BIG, Toole Group
and Catalyst and committed the acts found in this Order within the scope of his office or
employment. Thus, Respondents BIG, Toole Group and Catalyst are liable for Toole’s
violations pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B), and Regulation 1.2,
17 C.F.R. § 1.2.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,
Respondents Toole, BIG, Toole Group, and Catalyst violated Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C),
40(1)(A)-(B), and 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 60(1)(A)-(B), and 6m(1), and
Regulation 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(c).
A.
B.

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondents have submitted the Offer in which they, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

Acknowledge receipt of service of this Order;

Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this

_ Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based

on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

Waive:

1.

w

The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
A hearing;

All post-hearing procedures;

Judicial review by any court;

Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

Any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§
148.1-30 (2016), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

Any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulate that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondents have consented in the Offer;

Consent, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

I.

Makes findings by the Commission that Respondents violated Sections
4b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 40(1)(A)-(B), and 4m(1) of the Act and Regulation 4.20(c);
2. Orders Respondents to cease and desist from violating Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C),
40(1)(A)-(B), and 4m(1) of the Act and Regulation 4.20(c);

3. Orders Respondents to pay, jointly and severally, restitution in the amount of two
hundred ninety-three thousand, one hundred forty-one dollars ($293,141), plus
post-judgment interest within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this Order;

4. Orders Respondents to pay, jointly and severally, a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), plus post-judgment interest
within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this Order;

5. Appoints the National Futures Association (“NFA”) as Monitor in this matter;

6. Orders that Respondents be permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly,
engaging in trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term
is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012)), and all
registered entities shall refuse them trading privileges; and

7. Orders Respondents, and their successors and assigns, to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.
VII.
ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondents shall cease and desist from violating Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 40(1)(A)-
(B), and 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 60(1)(A)-(B) and 6m(1) (2012),
and Regulation 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(c) (2016);

Respondents shall pay, jointly and severally, restitution in the amount of two hundred
ninety-three thousand one hundred forty-one dollars ($293,141) (the “Restitution
Obligation”), plus post-judgment interest, within thirty (30) days of the date of the entry of
the Order. If the Restitution Obligation is not paid in full within thirty (30) days of the date
of entry of the Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the Restitution Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of the Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury
Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of the Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

To effect payment by Respondents and the distribution of restitution to Respondents’
customers, the Commission appoints the NFA as “Monitor.” The Monitor shall collect
payments of the Restitution Obligation from Respondents and make distributions as set
forth below. Because the Monitor is not being specially compensated for these services,
and these services are outside the normal duties of the Monitor, it shall not be liable for
any action or inaction arising from its appointment as Monitor other than actions
involving fraud.
Respondents shall make their payments of the Restitution Obligation under the Order in the
name of the “Arthur Toole Settlement Fund” and shall send such payments by electronic
funds transfer, or U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank
money order to the Office of Administration, National Futures Association, 300 South
Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago, Illinois 60606, under a cover letter that identifies the
paying Respondent and the name and docket number of this proceeding. The paying
Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of
payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three
Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

The Monitor shall oversee Respondents’ Restitution Obligation and shall have the
discretion to determine the manner of distribution of funds in an equitable fashion to the
Respondents’ customers or may defer distribution until such time as the Monitor may
deem appropriate. In the event that the amount of payments of the Restitution Obligation
to the Monitor are of a de minimis nature such that the Monitor determines that the
administrative cost of making a restitution distribution is impractical, the Monitor may, in
its discretion, treat such restitution payments as civil monetary penalty payments, which
the Monitor shall forward to the Commission, as discussed below. To the extent any
funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of Respondents’ Restitution Obligation,
such funds shall be transferred to the Monitor for disbursement in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the Order;

Respondents shall pay, jointly and severally, a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) (“CMP Obligation”), plus post-judgment
interest, within thirty (30) days of the date of the entry of the Order. If the CMP
Obligation is not paid in full within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of the Order, then
post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry
of the Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the
date of entry of the Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondents shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is
to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made
payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson@faa.gov
If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondents shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondents shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581;

Respondents are permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in trading
on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012)), and all registered entities shall refuse them trading
privileges; and

Respondents, and their successors and assigns, shall comply with the following
conditions and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondents agree that neither they nor any of their successors
and assigns, agents or employees under their authority or control shall take any
action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings
or conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that
this Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this
provision shall affect Respondents’: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take
legal positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondents, and their successors and assigns, shall undertake all steps necessary
to ensure that all of their agents and/or employees under their authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

2. Respondents agree that they shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. enter into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(yy) (2016)) for Respondents’
own personal accounts or for any accounts in which Respondents have a direct
or indirect interest;

b. have any commodity interests traded on Respondents’ behalf;

¢. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

d. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

e. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2016); and/or

f. act as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R. §
3.1(a) (2016)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that
term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38) (2012)
registered, required to be registered, or exempted from registration with the
Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R.

§ 4.14(a)(9) (2016).

3. Cooperation with Monitor: Respondents shall cooperate with the Monitor as
appropriate to provide such information as the Monitor deems necessary and
appropriate to identify Respondents’ customers, whom the Monitor, in its sole
discretion, may determine to include in any plan for distribution of any restitution
payments. Respondents shall execute any documents necessary to release funds
that they have in any repository, bank, investment or other financial institution,
wherever located, in order to make partial or total payment toward the Restitution
Obligation.

 

 

4. Partial Satisfaction: Respondents understand and agree that any acceptance by
the Commission or the Monitor of any partial payment of Respondents’
Restitution Obligation or CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of their
obligation to make further payments pursuant to the Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

oe Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondents satisfy in full their
Restitution Obligation and CMP Obligation as set forth in Commission’s Order,
Respondents shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of
any change to their telephone number and mailing address within ten (10)
calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

    

Christopher J.“Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: July 20, 2017
