UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

 

)
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE _ )
COMMISSION, )
100 F. Street, NE )
Washington, D.C. 20549-5030 )
) Case: 1:09-cv-01865
Plaintiff, ) Assigned To : Urbina, Ricardo M.
) Assign. Date : 9/30/2009
v. ) Description: General Civil
)
AGCO CORPORATION )
4205 River Green Parkway )
Duluth, Georgia 30096 )
Defendant. )
)
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission’”), alleges

SUMMARY

1. From approximately 2000 through 2003, AGCO Corporation (AGCO")
violated the books and records and internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (the “FCPA”) when its subsidiaries made approximately $5.9 million in |
kickback payments in connection with their sales of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the
United Nations (“UN”) Oil for Food Program. AGCO’s subsidiaries authorized and paid
kickbacks to Iraq in the form of “after-sales service fees” on sales of its products to Iraq.
AGCO knew or was reckless in not knowing that kickbacks were paid in connection with 7
its subsidiaries’ transactions. AGCO knew that such payments were prohibited by the Oil

for Food Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions on Iraq.
2. The Oil for Food Program provided humanitarian relief to the Iraqi
population during the time that Iraq was subject to international trade sanctions. The
program required that fraq could purchase necessary humanitarian goods and related
services through a UN escrow account. However, the kickbacks paid in connection with
AGCO’s subsidiaries’ sales of goods to Iraq had the effect of diverting funds out of the
escrow account and were paid by a third party into Iragi-controlled accounts at banks in
countries such as Jordan. |

3. Because its subsidiaries paid “after-sales service fees” to Iraq outside of
the confines of the UN program, AGCO failed to accurately record in its books and |
records the kickbacks that were authorized for payment to Iraq. AGCO also failed to
devise and maintain systems of internal accounting controls to detect and prevent such
illicit payments.

4. Asa result of this conduct, AGCO violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C.

§§ 78m(b)(2 (A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)I.
JURISDICTION

5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21d), 21(e),
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and Baal. AGCO, directly or
indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the |
mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection with the -

transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.
6. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] because AGCO does business in this judicial district and certain acts
or transactions constituting the violations by AGCO occurred in this district.

DEFENDANTS

7. AGCO Corporation (“AGCO”), headquartered in Duluth Georgia, is a
manufacturer and supplier of agricultural machinery under the brands Fendt, Valtra and
Massey-Ferguson. Throughout the relevant time period, AGCO’s common stock was
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol “AG”.' During the Oil for Food Program, AGCO
subsidiary AGCO Ltd. marketed and negotiated transactions involving the sales of
equipment and spare parts to fraq.

RELEVANT ENTITIES.

8. AGCO Leéd. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AGCO based in Coventry,
England. AGCO Ltd. is responsible for AGCO’s business in Europe, Africa and the
Middle East. Throughout the relevant period, AGCO Ltd.’s financial results were
included in the consolidated financial statements that AGCO filed with the Commission.
During the Oil for Food Program, AGCO Ltd. marketed and negotiated the sales of
equipment to Iraq through AGCO S.A., located in France, and AGCO Danmark A/S,
located in Denmark. | |

9, AGCO Danmark A/S is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AGCO based itr ..

Copenhagen, Denmark. AGCO Danmark’s financial results were included in the

 

i In May 2009, AGCO’s ticker symbol changed to “AGCO.”
consolidated financial statements that AGCO filed with the Commission. AGCO
Danmark sold agriculture equipment and parts to Iraq during the Oil for Food Program.

10. AGCOS.A. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AGCO located in Beauvais,
France. AGCO S.A.’s financial results were inchided in the consolidated financial
statements that AGCO filed with the Commission. AGCO S.A. sold agriculture
equipment and parts to Iraq during the Oil for Food Program.

FACTS
i. The United Nations Oil for Food Program

Li. On August 2, 1990, the government of Iraq, under Saddam Hussein,
invaded Kuwait, Four days later the United Nations Security Council voted to enact ULN.
Resolution 661, which prohibited member states from trading in any Iraqi commodities
or products. The United Nations continued to enforce these sanctions until 2003.

12. On April 14, 1995, the United Nations Security Council adopted
Resolution 986, which authorized the Government of Iraq to sell oil on the condition that
the proceeds of all of its oil sales be deposited in a bank account monitored by the United
Nations and used only to purchase designated humanitarian goods for the benefit of the
Iragi people. In May 1996, the Government of Iraq entered into a written Memorandum
of Understanding to implement Resolution 986.

13. The United Nations Office of Iraq Program, Oil for Food (the “Oil for
Food Program” or “Program’”} was subsequently established to administer lraq’s sale of...
oil and purchase of humanitarian goods by Iraq. A special bank account was established

at a bank in New York (the “UN Escrow Account”) to handle the transactions. The
United Nations’ economic sanctions on [rag remained in place for all trade and
transactions not authorized by the Oil for F ood Program.

14. ‘Starting in the middle of 2000, the Iraqi government made a concerted
effort to subvert the Program by demanding secret kickbacks from its humanitarian goods
suppliers. Although contracts entered into pursuant to the Program were subject to UN
review and approval, the Program gave Iraq discretion to select the companies from
which it purchased goods. A humanitarian supplier would submit a bid for the sale of its |
goods. After the Iraqi ministry would accept the bid, the ministry would inform the
supplier of the requirement that the supplier make a secret payment in the form of an
“After-Sales Service Fee” (“ASSF”) to Iraq i order to win the contract. The lraqi
ministry would also inform the suppher that the ASSF would have to be paid prior to the
goods entering into the country, or the goods would be stopped at the border until the
ASSF payment was paid.

15. Initially, when this scheme first began, suppliers met with the traqi
munistries in person and signed a side agreement acknowledging that the supplier would
- make the illicit payment? By October 2000, this fee was usually ten percent of the total
contract value, Later in the scheme, everyone understood that the ten percent would have
to be paid. Thus, side agreements were no longer needed -- the supplier would simply
increase its original contract bid by ten percent.

i6. The supplier would then submit its contract with the inflated contract price --
to the UN for approval, and not disclose the ten percent illicit payment, which was in

violation of the Program rules. The supplier would pay the ASSF to Iraq prior to

 

The side agreement was not provided to the UN when the Oil for Food contract was submitted and

approved. This was in violation of the Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions against Iraq.
shipping its goods. Afterwards, the UN Escrow Account would pay the supplier the
inflated contract price for the goods, thus, unknowingly reimbursing the supplier for the
ten percent that the supplier had already provided to Iraq. As a result of this conduct, the
UN Escrow Account lost the benefit of more than $1 billion.

17. After the Onited States invaded Iraq in March 2003, at the request of the |
provisional government, the UN ceased Iraq’s ASSF scheme. The UN required that all
pending contracts that had been inflated by ten percent be amended to reflect the true
contract value of the goods.

HE. AGCO Makes Diicit Payments to Trag

18. AGCO and its subsidiaries sell agricultural equipment and farm
machinery. While the Oil for Food Program was in effect, AGCO’s U_K. subsidiary,
AGCO Lid., marketed and negotiated the sale of agricultural equipment and spare parts
to fraqi ministries through the Program. AGCO Ltd. marketed and negotiated the sale of
equipment through two European subsidiaries, AGCO S.A., located in France, and
AGCO Danmark A/S, located in Denmark. During this time period, Iraq’s various
ministries required the payment of after-sales service fees in connection with winning
contracts to supply humanitarian goods under the Program. AGCO Ltd. acquiesced to
the demands of the Iragi ministries. AGCO’s subsidiaries paid the illegal kickbacks |
through a third-party agent based in Jordan. AGCO’s total gains from contracts in which

"ASSFs were paid are $13,907,393.
A. AGCO’s Subsidiaries Make $5.9 Million in ASSF Payments

1. AGCO Lid. Learns of the ASSFE Requirement
19. Prior to the Oil for Food Program, AGCO had tried unsuccessfully to
increase its market share in Iraq. Once the Program began, AGCO hired a Jordanian
agent to facilitate sales to fraq. From December 2000 to March 2063, AGCO entered
. into sixteen contracts under the Program that involved the payment of ASSE s. Each of
the contracts involved the sale of farm machinery and spare parts to the Iraqi Ministry of
Agnculture.

20. In December 2000, AGCO Ltd.’s business manager for Iraq learned from |
the Jordanian agent that the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture was demanding a kickback of
ten percent of the contract value as a condition to awarding Program contracts to AGCO.
The agent stated that the kickback was requiréd up front on all sales contracts. The
business manager for Iraq notified his supervisor, the sales director for the Middle East,
about the new requirement. The business manager and his supervisor agreed to the
kickbacks, but informed the agent that AGCO could not pay the kickbacks directly to
traq. The agent stated that he would make the payments directly to the Iraqis on AGCO’s |
behalf, and that AGCO should set up bank guarantees in favor of the agent to facilitate
the payments: in a December 2000 e-mail concerning the kickbacks, the agent informed
the business manager and his supervisor that “the payments are in the ‘interest of
continuity of our solid position we are enjoymg now.’” AGCO employees then proceeded
to funnel payments to the Ministry of Agriculture through the agent. The payments were
separate from and in addition to the normal commissions and fees that AGCO paid to the...
agent. In some instances, the agent asked that the finds be wired to his personal account.

2. AGCO Emplovees Create a Fictional Account to Fund the

 
21. Prior to the payment of ASSFs, AGCO paid the majority of the agent’s
fees in the form of three commissions: (1) a flat rate commission; (2) a variable
comunission based upon the value of the equipment sold; and (3) an “After Sales”
commission to allow the agent to establish and maintain an infrastructure in Iraq to
support AGCO’s farm machinery. The After Sales commission allowed the agent to
provide trained service personnel and services such as installation, repairs and operator
instruction on AGCO equipment. Typically, this After Sales fee was $400 for a basic
tractor and $900 for more complex machines. The agent’s total commissions were
generally between three and seven percent of the total contract price.

22. Beginning in early 2001, AGCO began to pay additional amounts to the
agent to make kickback payments to the Ministry of Agriculture on AGCO’s behalf. To
conceal the kickback scheme, AGCO’s employees created a fictional account in its books
and records denoted as “Ministry Accrual.” The kickback payments were all recorded in
this account. The AGCO employees made it appear that the account was being used to
pay the agent for his After Sales commissions. However, the AGCO employees
continued to maintain and use a separate accrual account for the payment of the agent’s
true After Sales commissions. Thus, AGCO maintained and used two accounts, both of —
which were described as for the purpose of After Sales work. The payments allocated to
the Ministry Accrual account were approximately ten percent of the contract price, which
was much larger than the After Sales commissions that historically were paid to the agent...
for ostensibly the same services.

23. The accrual account was created by AGCO Ltd.’s marketing staff with

virtually no oversight from AGCO Lid.’s finance department. No one questioned the
existence of the dual accounts. No one questioned why the Ministry Accrual account
contained approximately ten percent of the contract value despite the fact that there was
no contract in place requiring that such ten percent be paid to the ministry or anyone else.
The Ministry Accrual account was used to record the payments made to the agent and
kicked back to Iraq. When the finance department authorized payments from the
Ministry Accrual account, it did not ask for or receive any proof of service to warrant the
payments. Unlike other payments to the agent, the Ministry Accrual payments were
made by bank guarantee and in French francs or Euros instead of U.S. dollars. In
October 2002, an employee who set up bank guarantees for the agent knowing that the |
payments would be forwarded to the ministry warned AGCO Ltd.’s business manager for
Iraq and his supervisor that AGCO’s internal auditors might audit the Iraq commission .
accounts. The employee cautioned that “we do not want the auditors raising any
questions on Iraq business!” Other employees who were aware of the improper payments
wrote letters to the bank indicating that certain payments to the agent were for “unpaid .
commissions” when they knew that they were kickbacks for the ministry. Marketing and
finance employees in the UK., Denmark, and France were all instrumental in the scheme.

B. AGCO Conceals the Kickback Payments from the UN

24. As part of the scheme, AGCO’s subsidiaries concealed the kickback
payments from the UN. AGCO’s subsidiaries secretly inflated UN contract prices by an
artificial ten percent. In submitting its contracts to the UN for approval, AGCO’s
subsidiaries failed to disclose that they were paying Iraq a kickback of ten percent of the .
contract proceeds in direct contravention of UN, U.S. and international trade sanctions.

Altogether, AGCO’s subsidiaries paid approximately $5,912,393 in ASSFs on sixteen
contracts. Documents, including banking records, confirm the ASSF payments received
by Iraq in connection with the contracts. The ASSFs were inaccurately described as a
“Ministry Accrual” for infrastructure repair in the company’s books and records and were
included among legitimate commission payments to AGCO’s agent in Iraq.

C. AGCO Lacked Sufficient Controls Over Tis Marketing Department

25. Due to a lack of sufficient internal controls, AGCO Ltd.’s sales and
marketing ernployees were able to create and implement a scheme to pay kickbacks to the’
Ministry of Agriculture without raising suspicions at the company. Sales and marketing
personnel were able to enter into contracts without review from the legal or finance
departments. An AGCO Lid. accounting employee described the Finance Department
employees as “blind loaders” who input information into AGCO’s books without any
adequate oversight role. Marketing personnel were able to create accrual accounts (such
as the Ministry Accrual account used to pay the kickbacks) without any oversight and
caused accounts to be created and payments to be made without proper documentation.
On at least two occasions, the Jordanian agent asked for and received funds for “car
payments” related to business in Iraq, and AGCO employees did not obtain any
documentation as to the appropriateness of these expenses or ask if the cars were going to
government officials.

26. AGCO Ltd.’s structure at the time allocated inappropriate accounting and
finance responsibilities to the marketing department. Turnover in the marketing
department at AGCO Ltd. was high and employees were forced to shoulder a great deal
of the accounting burden. In February 2002, AGCO’s internal auditors noted numerous

problems with AGCO Ltd.’s sales process, including the establishment of accrual

1G
accounts by the marketing department. In response to internal audit’s report, AGCO
changed its methodology going forward. However, AGCO failed to conduct a review of
the accrual accounts that existed at the time of the report. As a result, the Ministry
_ Accrual account continued to be used in the scheme to make and record additional ASSF
payments to Iraq.

D. AGCO Failed to Netice Red Flags Related to the Sales te Iraq

27. AGCO’s managemént repeatedly failed to notice or follow up on red flags —
related to the company’s sales to Iraq under the Oil for Food Program. AGCO’s legal
department was aware that the company was conducting sales under the Program into
Iraq, a sanctioned country, but failed to ensure that the sanctions or the UN rules and
regulations were followed. In fact, AGCO’s General Counsel’s office assisted on at least
one occasion with obtaining 661 Committee approval for an Oil for Food contract. The
General Counsel’s office then sent a letter to a London bank asking that money be paid to
the Jordanian agent. With regard to AGCO Ltd.’s relationship with the Jordanian agent,
AGCO did not conduct any due diligence on the agent or require that the agent undergo
FCPA training. In addition, the agent’s contract with AGCO did not accurately explain
the agent’s services and payments, and lacked any FCPA language. In three instances
when the agent’s commission varied significantly from the typical three to seven percent
covered by his contract, AGCO employees were not questioned by management as to the
purpose of the additional costs. There is no evidence that management noticed these
discrepancies, even when the invoicing instructions to pay the agent did not match the
amounts actually paid. in 2004, AGCO management was questioned by a news reporter

about rumors that the company paid kickbacks during the Oil for Food Program. In

il
direct contravention to their “Ministry Accrual” story that payments were made for
infrastructure improvernents, AGCO employees told the reporter that they had been
requested to pay kickbacks, but refused. AGCO management did not follow up on the
discrepancy until subpoenaed by the sec staff.

28.  AGCO, through its subsidiaries, entered into sixteen contracts with Iraqi
ministries for the sales of AGCO products and made ASSF payments totaling
$5,912,393. AGCO either knew or was reckless in not knowing about the improper
payments.

UL. AGCO’s Failure to Maintain Adequate internal Controls

29. AGCO failed to maintain a system of intemal controls sufficient to ensure
that the companies’ transactions under the Oil for Food Program were executed in
accordance with management’s authorization aud to maintain accountability for the
company’s assets. As discussed above, AGCO’s subsidiaries made numerous illicit
payments that contravened the Oil for Food Program, U.S. and international trade
sanctions, and its own internal FCPA and anti-bnbery policies.

30. In sixteen transactions that AGCO subsidiaries entered into with Iraqi
ministries, a portion of the sales pnce for goods to fraq constituted ASSF payments in
violation of UN regulations and trade sanctions, and also AGCO’s FCPA and anti-bribery
policies. As evidenced by the extent and duration of the improper ASSF payments made
by AGCO, the improper recording of these payments in the company's books and
records, and the failure of AGCO's management to detect these irregularities, AGCO
failed to devise and maintain an effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect

these violations of the FCPA, as required by Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)@).
HV. AGCO’s Failure to Properly Maintain Its Books and Records

31. As described above, AGCO’s accounting for its Oil for Food transactions
failed properly to record the nature of the kickback payments. On sixteen transactions, a
portion of the sales price for goods to [rag constituted ASSF payments in violation of
U.N. regulations and trade sanctions, and also AGCO’s FCPA and anti-bribery policies.
In these instances, AGCO’s subsidiary AGCO Ltd. failed to properly designate those
‘payments, recording them in a fictional accrual account as ordinary business expenses.
Thus, AGCO failed to accurately record these payments in its books, records, and _
accounts to fairly reflect the transactions.

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FURST CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

32. Paragraphs | through 31 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

33. As described above, AGCO, through its officers, agents, consultants,
representatives, and subsidiaries, failed to keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its
assets.

34. By reason of the foregoing, AGCO violated Section 13(b)Q)(A) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)}

[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act].

35. Paragraphs | through 34 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

13
36. _ As described above, with respect to illicit payments made in connection
with AGCO’s subsidiaries’ sales to traq, AGCO failed to devise and maintain a system of
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i)
payments were made in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
and (ii) payments were recorded as necessary to maintain accountability for its assets.

37. By reason of the foregoing, AGCO violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the .
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)2\(B)]

| PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment:

A Permanently restraining and enjoining AGCO from violating Sections
13(b}(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)\(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(by2KA) and (BI;

B. — Ordering AGCO te disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment interest,
wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct;

C. Ordering AGCO to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d)\(3) of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; and

14
D. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: $f ton ber F2 2009 -

Respectfully submitted,

ee, D Say

Cheryl J. Pearboro (D.C. Bar No. 422175)
. Tracy L.
Kelly G. Kilroy

“Attorneys for Plaintiff,
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Mail Stop 5030-A
’ Washington, DC 20549
(202) 351-4403 (Scarboro)
