2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 1 of 31

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0027

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

SANTANDER CONSUMERUSA
INC.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
consumer credit furnishing practices of SantanderConsumer USA Inc.
(Respondent, as defined below) and has identified the following law violations: (1)
Respondent furnished inaccurate information about consumers’ credit to Consumer
Reporting Agencies (CRAs) that it knewor had reasonable causeto believe was
inaccurate in violation of § 623(a)(1)(A) ofthe Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA),
15 U.S.C. § 1681-s2(a)(1)(A); (2) Respondent failed to promptly update and
correct information furnished to CRAs that Respondent determined was not
complete or accurate in violation of § 623(a)(2) ofthe FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681-
s2(a)(2); (3) Respondent furnished information to CRAs about severely delinquent

or charged-off accounts but failed to furnish Dates of First Delinquency (DOFDs)
]
AAA A REE ARS my 4 mt A RAI mo th NA
POPO-BOER.A027 Macoument 1 Bilan Tes oo reonen Pana 2 af 34
ak We LP ee BO Wit Bat 8 peak ds PRIMA Pay ee ee PU CRS Mab bd

for those accounts in violation of $ 623(a)\(5) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681-
s2(aj(3); and (4) Respondent failed to establish and implement reasonable written
policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of information
provided to CRAs in violation of Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42(a). These
violations of the FCRA and Regulation V also constitute independent violations of
the Consumer Financial Protection Act (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. 8 5536fa)C1 (A). Under
$$ 1053 and 1055 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12

U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).

Jurisdiction
1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $§ 3563 and 5565, and § 621 of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §
168 is(b)C1L CH).
EL.
Stipulation
2. Respondent hasexecuted a “Stipulation and Consentto the Issuance ofa
Consent Order,” dated December 14, 2020 (Stipulation), which is
incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation,

Respondent has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the
PE OPAPP es ~~ Loa wees : EEN PON ~ :
SARL RED AO?  Nseeumentt Ele IO2OPONON Pana 2 4f3
ah A PT Oe OU OA ef BoP RRA EEN L PRENSA fey es Oe rch at Lat sw

Bureau under $$ 1053 and 1055 ofthe CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565,
withoutadmitting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of
law, except that Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the
Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondent andthe subject matter of this action.

ULL.

Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Board” means Respondent's duly-elected and acting Board of Directors.

b. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is entered
on the administrative docket.

c. “Regional Director” meansthe Regional Director for the Southeast
Region for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, or his or her delegate.

d. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalfof
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on substantially
the same facts as described in Section [V of this Consent Order.

e. “Relevant Period” includes from January 2016 through August 2019.

f. “Respondent” means Santander Consumer USA Inc. and its successors

and assigns.
AAA Te AA om . -_ eee tg Oy a re
BOC OREE BLOG? Macument 7 Biba [OPO fe geg Pane ad af Ss
he LP I NE No Ad. Ra Ra PE PRENSA Fb ea ee AO CAMPS OR OE

EY,
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau findsthe following:

4. Respondent is aspecialized consumer finance company headquartered
in Fort Worth, Texas. [ts primary business is the indirect origmation of retail
installment contracts and vehicle leases through manufacturer-atfiliated dealers or
large, independent dealers. In 2019, Respondent reported $31.3 billion in
originations across vehicle retail installment contracts and leases, and it reported
$994 million in net income.

5.  Respondentis a“covered person” under 12 U.S.C. § 5481{6).

6. Respondent fumishes consumer credit information to CRAs and is
therefore subject to the FCRA and Regulation V. 15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq.; 12
C.F.R. pt. 1022.

7. Respondent furnishes consumer information onthe vehicle retail
installment contracts and leases it services by sending monthly data files to CRAs
using a data format called Metro 2. Each line of consumer data relating to one
individual credit account is commonly known as a tradeline, and each tradeline can
be composed of more than 40 data fields, such as the consumer’s name, thetype of

account, andthe status ofthe account.
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 5 of 31

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s Furnishing of Information
That It Knew or Had Reasonable Cause to Believe Was Inaccurate

8. From at least January 2016 to at least August 2019, Respondent
furnished consumer information to CRAs that contained systemic errors. In many
instances, the errors should have been readily apparent because the data for certain

accounts was internally inconsistent.

9. | Moreover, Respondent received error reports from at least one CRA
that described these errors in the company’s data files. In addition, Respondent’s
internal audits show that it was aware of at least one of these errors as of 2016.
Despite being on notice of these errors, Respondent continued to make them for

years.

10. Several of Respondent’s errors related to its use of the Date of First

Delinquency (DOFD) field in its furnishing data.

11. Section 605(a)(5) ofthe FCRA requires that negative information
such as late payments must be removed from a consumer’s credit report afterthat
information is seven years old. 15 U.S.C. § 1681(a)(5). The date by which such
information must be removed is determined by the date on which the account first
became delinquent—the “date of first delinquency.” This provision allows

consumers to rebuild their credit following a long period of delinquency.
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 6 of 31

Reporting an Incorrect Date of First Delinquency

 

12. Inmore than 23 million instances between January 2016 and August
2019, or 35 percent of all instances when Respondent furnished a DOFD during
this time period, the DOFD furnished by Respondent equaled the Date of Account
Information (DOAI) for the account. The DOAT is the date on which Respondent

pulled information from its system of record each month in order to sendto CRAs.

13. When fumishing in the Metro 2 format, furnishers like Respondent
must provide the DOAI so that date is updated each month until the company stops
reporting on atradeline. Even ifthe DOFD did equal the DOAT at one point fora
particular account, it is extremely unlikely that the DOFD would equal the DOAI

for two or more months.

14. A CRA informed Respondent that it was reporting DOFDs that were
more recent than previously reported DOFDs on derogatory accounts --an error
that couldresult from usingthe DOAI in the DOFD field. Respondent received
these reports from January 2015 through June 2016 and again in December 2017

and early 2019.

15. In morethan 22 million instances when Respondent reported a DOFD
that equaled the DOAI, the company also reported that the accounts were current.

DOFD should not typically be reported for current accounts. Respondent knew
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 7 of 31

about this issue since at least September 2016, when an internal audit showed that
the company reported DOFDs on current accounts. In November 2016, another

internal audit showed thesame error.

16. Inalmost 450,000 ofthe instances when Respondentreported a
DOFD that equaled the DOAI, the com pany also reported an account status
showing a serious delinquency (e.g., account was charged-off or at least 90 days
delinquent, or the vehicle was already repossessed). The DOAI is typically close in
time to the date of furnishing because account information is ordinarily pulled for
furnishing purposes shortly before it is transmitted to CRAs. By contrast, it would
be extremely unusual to have a DOFD close to the date of furnishing on a seriously

delinquent account.
Reporting a Date of First Delinquency for Accounts that Were Not Delinquent

17. In at least an additional 890,700 instances between January 2016 and
August 2019, Respondent reported a DOFD at the same time it reported
contradictory information suggesting that the accounts in question were not in fact
delinquent. Respondent should not havereported DOFDs for accounts that were
current, paid in full (and not delinquent immediately beforehand), or previously
delinquent but subsequently became current. If, on the other hand, the DOFD was
accurate and the accounts referenced above were delinquent, then Respondent

should not have reported them as current, paid in full, or cured. Either way,

7
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 8 of 31

Respondent fumished incorrect information for each of these tradelines.

Reporting Other Types of Inaccurate Information

 

18. Respondent also furnished inconsistent information regarding whether
accounts were open or closed and whether consumers were carrying a balance or
obligated to make future payments. To the extent that the com pany inaccurately
reported whether accounts were open or closed or that consumers owed money that
they did not actually owe, these errors could have negatively impacted consumers’

credit scores and access to credit.

19. For example, in at least 367,070 instances between January 2016 and
August 2019, Respondent furnished information indicating that accounts were
“paid in full, charged off,” along with contradictory information suggesting the
tradelines were still open. The company received error reports from a CRA
highlighting this inconsistency from January 2015 through June 2016 and again in

December 2017 and early 2019.

20. Respondent also reported in approximately 250,000 instances that
accounts had a current balance and simultaneously furnished contradictory
information, such as also furnishing information indicating that the accounts were
paid in full. The company had received error reports from a CRA since January

2015 advising of this error.
AAA Pere Ame ry
. HPO.RCE M. PAV? Mis
Poe PG n

athe A A

Coa wee 2 TPN EN ON ~
sprain 4 Ribas TO POO fares p>
AGEiter gh of PERG fa ee eS

Pe
sae

wo}
me
Le
Co
Ce
Ned!

21. Priorto June 2017, Respondent did not consistently, for all tts retail
installment contract and lease portfolios, clearly and conspicuously specify to
consumers an address where consumers could notify the com pany that information

the company furnished was inaccurate.

22. Section 623(a)(1 (A) of FCRA prohibits a furnisher from fumishing
any information relatmeg to a consumer to any CRA if it knows or has reasonable

cause to believe that the information 1s inaccurate. 15 U.S.C.$ 1681s-2(a)C1 WA).

23. Innumerous instances, Respondent fumished consumer credit
information to CRAs that contained inaccurate information about consumers’
credit accounts.

24. Inmany instances, Respondent knew or had reasonable cause to
believe that the information was inaccurate because this information was internally
inconsistent. In many other instances, the company furnished a DOFD that equaled
the DOAT, which was extremely unlikely to be accurate for tradelines furnished
over multiple months for multiple accounts. Moreover, the company continued to
furnish this inaccurate information even alterit had been notified about these types
of errors by CRAs.

25. Therefore, priorto June 2017, Respondent violated § 623(a)(1 (A) of

the FCRA, 15 U.S.C.$ 1681s-2(a)C1 (A).

o
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 10 of 31

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s Failure to
Promptly Update and Correct Inaccurate Information

26. Section 623(a)(2) of FCRA requires fumishers to promptly update and
correct information they have furnished to a CRA that they determine is not

complete or accurate. 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(2).

27. As detailed above, in numerous instances from at least January 2016

to at least August 2019, Respondent furnished to CRAs information relating to

consumers that was not complete or accurate.

28. Inmany instances, Respondent furnished information that was
inconsistent with its internal account information and inaccurate. In many other
instances, Respondent furnished a DOFD that equaled the DOAI, which was
extremely unlikely to be accurate for tradelines furnished over multiple months for

multiple accounts.

29.  Inaddition, Respondent received multiple error reports from at least

one CRA that allowed it to determinethat the information it furnished was not
complete or accurate, and Respondent’s internal audits showed at least oneof the

errors listed above.

30. Despite this knowledge, Santander did not promptly update or correct

the incomplete or inaccurate information it furnished. To the contrary, in many

10
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 11 of 31

cases Santander continued reporting inconsistent information for years after being

alerted to its errors.

31. Therefore, Santander violated section 623(a)(2) of the FCRA, 15

U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(2).
Findings and Conclusions as to Failing to Reporta DOFD

32. In at least 9,730 instances between January 2016 and August 2019,
Respondent failed to report a DOFD, leaving this field blank, when it reported
other information indicating that the accounts were more than 120 days delinquent
or had been charged off. This error could have caused incorrect delinquency
information to remain on aconsumer’s credit report for longer than it should, and,
in turn, this could potentially result in another credit report user charging a higher

cost of credit or denying credit to an affected consumer.

33. From January 2015 through June 2016 and again in December 2017
and early 2019, a CRA sent Respondent monthly error reports showing that the
company was not always reporting DOFDs when it reported other information

indicating that the accounts were delinquent.

34. Despite this information, through at least August 2019, Respondent
continued to fail to furnish DOFDs while also furnishing information indicating

that the accounts had been placed for collection, charged-off, subject to similar

11
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 12 of 31

action, or were at least 120 days delinquent (which is a typical time period for

moving an account to collection and charge-off).

35. Section 623(a)(5)(A) of the FCRA requires that an entity providethe
DOFD for any account placed for collection, charged to profit or loss, or subjected
to any similar action. 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(5)(A). Thus, when Respondent failed

to report a DOFD in the 9,730 instances cited above, Respondent violated section

623(a)(5)(A) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(5)(A).
Findings and Conclusions as to Deficient Policies and Procedures

36. Respondent failed to establish and implement reasonable written
policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information
relating to consumers that it furnished to CRAs. In 2016, Respondent’s policies
and procedures did not require employees to add information required in the Metro
2 file after the company sold accounts to another company. When furnishers like

Respondent sell accounts, they are required to identify the purchaser.

37. Respondent submitted Metro 2 correction files for at least some
accounts that it sold. But at least 89,400 of these correction files improperly

omittedthe name ofthe account purchaser.

12
APOE POR AAS ~ . oa peg NTN EP
SOOO BRERA? Mie issycinmt 4 Clan 4°32 FOO AON
ee KPa TER POO MAF ROA PIAS EL gd Hoke

38. Until2018, Respondent did not have any written policies or
procedures requiring employees to update its internal records concerning consumer

accounts after it determmed that the internal records contamed errors.

39. When afurnisherlike Respondent determines there is an error in one
of its tradelines, it is required to correct and update the information previously

furnished.

40. For those who furnish to the national CRAs, this task is accom plished
by submitting changesto the CRAs. Simultaneously, the furnisher must correct its
internal records to ensurethat it does not send a file with the same error the next
month. Respondent had no written policies or procedures requiring its employees
to make these changes.

Al. Respondent was aware that its credit reporting policies and procedures
contained important misstatements and deficiencies. In 2016, for example, an
internal audit found that “written procedures do not exist that would govern daily
reporting activities within the | Credit Bureau Reporting] department.”

42. Another2016 audit foundthat Respondent’s policies and procedures

were “not sufficient” and pointed out specific gaps in the company’s procedures.

13
SO BCEBLOOOF Me

t Af i
PT ESE wR rf ¢ aN

vile aot eth D SUE TE SE OY ‘ 2 be SNe :

MPI TRO PPT at LAPEER Ek cal PS kb Od

43. Thesame audit also noted that Respondent had no training for
electronically submitting consumer datato the CRAs or protocols to measure

whether such information was successfully transmittedto CRAs.

44. Regulation V requires furnishers to “establish and implement
reasonable written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of
the information relating to consumers that it furnishes to a consumer reporting
agency.” LZ2C.FLR. § 1022.42(a). The policies and procedures must be appropriate
to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the furnisher’s activities. 12 C.F.R.§
1022.42(a).

45. Regulation V requires that furnishers’ policies and procedures should
address establishing and implementing internal controls for accuracy and integrity
of information about consumers furnished to CRAs; training staff that furnishes
information; providing appropriate and effective oversight of service providers;
deleting, updating, and correcting information in the furnisher’s records, as
appropriate, to avoid furnishing inaccurate information; designing appropriate
technology to communicate with CRAs; and conducting a periodic evaluation of its
practices.

46. Between 2016 and 2018, Respondent failed to establish and
im plement reasonable written policies and procedures that related to the accuracy

and integnty of the consumer information it was furnishing to CRAs. Respondent’s

14
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 15 of 31

written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the
consumer information that it furnishes to CRAs were inadequate given the high
volumeand complexity of Respondent’s furnishing activities and were not
reasonable or appropriate given the nature, size, complexity, and scope of
Respondent’s activities.

47. Therefore, Respondent violated Regulation V by failing to establish
and implementthe required reasonable written policies and procedures, 12 C.F.R.

§ 1022.42(a).
Findings and Conclusions as to the Consumer Financial Protection Act

48. UndertheCFPA, acovered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules thereunder,
violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5536(a)(1)(A), 5481(14).

49. The FCRA and Regulation V are Federal consumer financial laws.

50. Respondent’s violations of the FCRA and Regulation V, described in
Paragraphs 8-47, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) ofthe CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §

5536(a)(1)(A)

15
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 16 of 31

ORDER

V.
Conduct Provisions
IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:

51. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and
attorneys who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate (1) § 623(a)(1)(A) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-
2(a)(1)(A); (ii) § 623(a)(2) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(2); (iii) §
623(a)(5)(A) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 168 1s-2(a)(5)(A); or (iv) 12 C.F.R. §
1022.42(a), andin connection with fumishing consumer credit information, must

take the following affirmative actions:

a. Correct all inaccuracies and errors described in Section IV of this
Consent Order and update affected tradelines accordingly to the extent
data is available;

b. Each month, examine Respondent’s furnishing data for the errors
described in Section IV of this Consent Order, take all reasonable steps to
identify such errors, and resolve identified errors before providing the

datato any CRA;

16
APOE POR AAS > ‘
AAPA BLASS Phevesirpvcant 4
GIT RPL POPU MAA BALE EASE ERT

c. Establish and implement reasonable written policies and procedures
regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information relating to
consumers that Respondent furnishes toa CRA;

d. Examine and, wherenecessary, establish and implement changes to its
policies and procedures and the practices of its employees to ensure that
its employees properly route, categorize, investigate, and respond to all
direct disputes; and

e. Retain all direct disputes and all response letters for at least five years.

VEL
CompHance Plan
(TIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

52. Within 45 days ofthe Effective Date, Respondent must submitto the

Regional Director for review and determination of non-objection a com prehensive

compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s consumer credit fumishing

practices comply with all applicable Federal consumer financial laws and theterms

of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The Compliance Plan must include, at a

minimum:

a. detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent Order;

and

17
ARAM FA ANAS ~ ‘
AHO Ber AVP Rarciisant 4
ee KPa TER POO MAF LAA TAGE EEF

b. specific timetrames and deadlines for im plementation of each step.

53. The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a
determ mation of non-objection to the Comphance Plan or direct Respondent to
revise it. Ifthe Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance
Plan, Respondent must revise and resubmit the Compliance Plan to the Regional
Director with 15 days.

54. After recerving notification that the Regional Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
im plement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes

outhnedin the Compliance Plan.
VU.
Role of the Board

iT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

a
a

The Board or a committee thereof must review all submissions
(including plans, reports, programs, policies, and procedures) required by this
Consent Order prior to submission to the Bureau.

56. Although this Consent Order requires Respondentto submit certain
documents for review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the Board will

have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound management of Respondent

18
and for ensuring that Respondent complies with the laws thatthe Bureau enforces,
including Federal consumer financial laws and this Consent Order.

37.  Ineach instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure
adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondent, the Board ora
committee thereof must:

a. Authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondent to fully comply

with the Consent Order;

b. Require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of

compliance obligations; and

c. Require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any material

non-comphance with Board directives related to this Section.
VHI.
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty
TIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

58. Under § 10545(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section [V ofthis Consent Order, andtaking into
account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)\(3), Respondent must pay acivil money

penalty of $4.75 million to the Bureau.

19
ARAM FA ANAS ~ ‘
AHO Ber AVP Rarciisant 4
ee KPa TER POO MAF LAA TAGE EEF

59, Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil
money penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau orto the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

60. The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be
deposited in the Civil Penalty Fund ofthe Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

61. Respondent, forall purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid
under this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply fora tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax

benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification

from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this
Consent Order.

62. To preserve the deterrenteffect ofthe civil money penalty in any
Related Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled
to, nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the civil

money penalty paid in this action or because ofany payment thatthe Bureau

20
APOE POR AAS > ‘
AAPA BLASS Phevesirpvcant 4
GIT RPL POPU MAA BALE EASE ERT

makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. the court in any Related Consumer Action
offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory monetary remedies

im posed against Respondent based on the civil money penalty paid in this action or
based on any payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund,
Respondent must, within 30 days after entry ofa final order granting such offset or
reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to the
U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will not be considered an additional civil money
penalty and will not change the amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this
action.

63. Inthe eventofany default on Respondent’s obligations to make
payment underthis Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of default
to the date of payment, and will immediately become dueand payable.

64. Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title tothe
funds paid to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returnedto Respondent.

65. Under31U.S.C.§ 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so,
must furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be used
for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of

this Consent Order.
RPA RPA Ama ~ . A ous UN NS ee oy ae ~e
IOWA CE RAS? Pieacmiyrent 4 Clan 49/98 fenen Dineen BO af 24
Sa teed WA fd BA AEN Pa PO oPyo Ae Sint thn Bot Bae AF ha » OSA MS Ne fn Wd ed

66. Within 30 days ofthe entry ofa final judgment, consent order, or
settlement in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writmg. That
notification must indicate the amountofredress, ifany, that Respondent paid or is
required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of consumers

to whom that redress has been or will be paid.
DX.
Reporting Requirements

VPS FURTHER ORDERED that:

67. Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may
affect compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would result
in the emergence ofa successor company; the creation or dissolution ofa
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this
Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by or against
Respondent; ora change in Respondent’s nameor address. Respondent must
provide this notice, ifpracticable, at least 30 days before the development, but in

any case no later than 14 days after the development.
ARAN AAEM AMA ~ a Ot NTN Em o~ - ~
2OOHOL RE RAN Mie issycinmt 4 Clan 4°32 FOO AON Rance PQ af 24
aNd IT PO A a RAR LGE AGE ER oF Pols shad hn a WEN PCAN aot Gi Pd

68. Within? days of the Effective Date, Respondent must designate at
least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal addresses as points of
contact that the Bureau may use to communicate with Respondent.
69. Respondent must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 68 at least 30 days before the change or as soon as
practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.
70. Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year alter
receiving notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit
tothe Regional Director an accurate written compliance progress report
(Compliance Report), sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at aminimum:
a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form tn which Respondent has
com plied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order:

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has

complied with the Compliance Plan; and

>

attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtamed under

Paragraph 74, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
SOL BCEBLONO?, Pre

; ge 7 £2
whl aM er Ee F Boats a
ee KPa TER POO MAF RE PAS EE 7

a
Pod

QA

Py A
Pre ed Pg MAME a
Mt oP a Le A » OSA MS Ne

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

TPIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

71. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order, sworn
under penalty of perjury.

72. Within 30 days ofthe Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy
of this Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well
as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.

73. For Syears from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy
of this Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section IX, any future board members and executive officers, as weil
as to any managers, employees, Service Providers, or other agents and
representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.

74. Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging
receipt of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sien Act, 1S U.S.C. § 7001 et seg., within

24
ARAN AAEM AMA ~ a Ot NTN Em o~ me ene
2OOHOL RE RAN Mie issycinmt 4 Clan 4°32 FOO AON Dineen BR af 24
aNd IT PO A a RAR LGE AGE ER oF Pols shad hn a WEN CALE al Wl hd

30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving acopy of this Consent Order under
this Section.

735. Within 90 days ofthe Effective Date, Respondent must provide the
Bureau with a list ofall persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 72-73 and a copy of all signed and
dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under Paragraph 74.

MH.
Recordkeeping

(TIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

76. Respondent must create and retain the following business records:

a. all documents and records necessary to dem onstrate full compliance with
each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions to the
Bureau.

b. all consumer complaints relating to fumishing consumer credit
information (whether received directly or indirectly, such as through a
third party), and any responses to those complaints or requests.

c. records showing, for each employee providing services related to
Respondent’s furnishing practices, that person’s name, telephone
number, email, physical, and postal address, job title or position, dates of

service, and, ifapplicable, thereason for termination.

2

Cay
ARAN SAPS ANAT PA ee ty Se . _—
POSO.RCEELOOOF Pocument 7 Pidac T3/o Meo Pane ats
Sai Uh eb Fd Rat A te F BHAA Ed Pie Sint stim Bl Boe oP iw Rag he Ga I

d. Records showing, for each service provider providing services relatedto
Respondent’s furnishing practices, thename of a point of contact, and
that person’s telephone number, email, physical, and postal address, job
title or position, dates of service, and, if applicable, the reason for
termination.

77. Respondent must makethe documents identified in Paragraph 76

available to the Bureau upon the Bureau's request.
HL.
Notices

TIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

78. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents relatingto
this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Santander Consumer
USA Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP- 0027 .” and send them by overnight courier or
first-class mailto the below address and contemporaneously by email to

James L. Carley

Regional Director, Bureau Southeast
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
1700 G Street, N.W.

Washington D.C. 20552
APA RRA AA ry, et a Pt APA ISA Pio OP
3 OPE aa Ly ee rater iyyaarrt F Clan 4°32 FOO AON Merwe BY avd
Batt UPd Lat Ad athe F RPA TAS Pd Sobek oA

AS
:

MEET,
Cooperation with the Bureau

TS FURTHER ORDERED that:

79. Respondent must cooperate fully with the Bureau in this matter andin
any investigation related to or associated with the conduct described in Section [V
of this Consent Order. Respondent must provide truthful and complete
information, evidence, and testimony. Respondent must cause Respondent’s
officers, employees, representatives, or agents to appear for interviews, discovery,
hearings, trials, and any other proceedings that the Bureau may reasonably request
upon 10 days written notice, or other reasonable notice, at such places and times as

the Bureau may designate, withoutthe service of com pulsory process.
ALY.

Compliance Monitoring
TIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

80. Within 14 days ofreceipt ofa written request from the Bureau,
Respondent must submit additional Com phance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which must
be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to requirements

of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those requirements; or
APOE POR AAS ~
SOOO BRERA? Miners t fF
MPR TELS Le PG WA fd BAAR kd

produce non-privileged documents related to requirements of this Consent Order
and Respondents’ compliance with those requirements.

81. Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who has
agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel present.

82. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of

civil investigative demands under 12 C.F.R.§ 1080.6 or other compulsory process.
wY.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

iT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

83. Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of
this Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.

84. The Regional Directormay, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (¢. g., reasonable extensions of time
and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good cause justifies
the modification. Any such modification by the Regional Director must be in

writing.
APOE POR AAS > ‘
AAPA BLASS Phevesirpvcant 4
GIT RPL POPU MAA BALE EASE ERT

YI.
Administrative Provisions

TPIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

85. The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise
prevent the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 86. Further, forthe avoidance of doubt, the provisions of
this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any other person or
governmental agency from taking any action against Respondent.

86. The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential
lability for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section [V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred betore the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about them as
of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in this Consent
Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its aifiliates,
including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of violations or the
continuation ofa pattern or practice of violations orto calculate the amount of any
penalty. This release does not preclude or affect any right ofthe Bureau to
determ ine and ensure comphance with the Consent Order, or to seek penalties for

any violations of the Consent Order.
APRON PERE PS Aa ~ .
AHO Ber AVP Rarciisant 4
BNP eT ES Pd WA fd BAAR kd

87. This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and expressly
does not form, and may not be constnied to form, a contract binding the Bureau or
the United States.

88. This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date or
5 years from the most recent date that the Bureau initiates an action alleging any
violation of the Consent Order by Respondent. [fsuch action is dismissed orthe
relevant adjudicative body rules that Respondent did not violate any provision of
the Consent Order, andthe dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or upheld on
appeal, then the Consent Order will terminate as though the action had never been
filed. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time,
except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated agent.

89. Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be
based on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

90. Should Respondent seck to transfer or assign all or part of its
operations that are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition
of sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with

ali applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

39
2020-BCFP-0027 Document1 Filed 12/22/2020 Page 31 of 31

91. The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the
Bureau. For any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the
maximum amount of civil money penalties allowed under §1055(c) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce this
Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve Respondent wherever
Respondent may be found and Respondent may not contest that court’s personal
jurisdiction over Respondent.

92. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the
complete agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent Order
and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the accompanying
Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written communications, discussions, or
understandings.

93. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may
be construed as allowing Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this ?:}h'day of December, 2020

Catt brine pe

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

31
