cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Santander Consumer USA Inc.
for Credit Reporting Violations in Connection with Its Auto Loans

DEC 22, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against Santander Consumer USA Inc. (Santander) to address the Bureau's
finding that it violated the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). The consent order was issued in
connection with Santander providing erroneous consumer loan data to consumer reporting
agencies (CRAs). Santander, a subsidiary of Banco Santander S.A., is a leading originator
and servicer of nonprime auto loans and leases. Santander furnishes credit information on
the auto loans it services by sending monthly data files to CRAs. The Bureau found that the
consumer loan data Santander furnished to CRAs between January 2016 and August 2019
contained many systemic errors that in many instances, could have negatively impacted
consumers’ credit scores and access to credit. The consent order requires Santander to take
certain steps to prevent future violations and imposes a $4,750,000 civil money penalty.

The Bureau found that Santander furnished consumer loan information to CRAs that it knew
or reasonably should have known was inaccurate, including failing to furnish accurate
information regarding whether accounts were open or closed and whether consumers were
carrying a balance or obligated to make future payments. The Bureau found that Santander
failed to promptly update and correct information it furnished to CRAs that it later
determined was incomplete and failed to provide the date of first delinquency on certain
delinquent or charged-off accounts. The Bureau further found that Santander failed to
establish and implement reasonable written policies and procedures regarding the
accuracy and integrity of information provided to CRAs. Santander’s conduct violated the
FCRA and its implementing regulation, Regulation V. Further, these violations of the FCRA
and Regulation V constituted violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010.

Under the terms of the consent order, Santander must correct all inaccuracies and errors
that the Bureau identified and take certain steps to improve and ensure the accuracy of the
consumer information it provides to CRAs. These steps include conducting monthly reviews
of account information to assess the accuracy and integrity of information Santander
furnishes. Santander must also establish and implement reasonable policies and

procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of information it furnishes to CRAs.

The consent order is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_santander-consumer-usa-
inc_consent-order_2020-12.pdf 4 (cfpb.gov/documents/9436/cfpb_santander-consumer-us
a-inc_consent-order_2020-12.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
