2020-BCFP-0009 Document’ Filed 08/26/2020 Page 1 of 39

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP- 0009

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

PHLoans.com, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of PHLoans.com, Inc. (PHLoans or
Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24 of Regulation
Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in Lending Act
(TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts and Practices—
Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3; and §§ 1031
and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§

5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 88 5563, 5565, the

Bureau issues this Consent Order.
AQAA Poh mame
POOL RCE LOA
in bad Be KP nd Nt :

>
oO
0
3
of
2
2
ah
ae
ro
co
hh
co
2
3
0
9)
*

Overview
PHLoans is a mortgage broker and lender that offers and provides mortgages
guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
Occasionally, it has acted as the creditor, providing loans itself; in other
situations, it has acted as a broker, arranging for another creditor to provide
loans.
PHLoans advertises these mortgage products to consumers through direct-
mail advertising campaigns targeted primarily at United States military
servicemembers and veterans.
PHLoans has sent consumers millions of advertisements that violate federal
law because of misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop PHLoans from distributing
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.

II.
Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the

CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12
A WMA Peri mame
POEO-ROE ROO
athe At oe A AS Ne :

>
io)
D
2

2

: PAS PAR ISA PN a a cory
Tan AGIOS PEAS Dara & yf 2S
ERG A ea Ae PO CAMS af AE

U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as
amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5538.

Il.
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 14, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under §§
1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

IV.
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertising Compliance Official” means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 67. The Advertising Compliance

Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
AAA A RUSE ARMS =
BOC OREE BLOG Dec
Bae NY a

Pedy fee Beas ah e
: De PPP

AS PRR IEPA ~
, AS PGR PAO m
he We A

Co wee :
ewe OF Ba ctoaen PY ’ 7 oth
MEPEERSPG t POR WO oy

on
ae

chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,
chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be in a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the back ground
on which it appears; presented before the consumer incurs any
financial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exemplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contained in the advertisement as sent, posted,

published, or disseminated to a consumer.
10.

AQAA Poh mame
POOL RCE LOA
in bad Be KP nd Nt :

g
ms
i
2
of
2
wd
ah
Sion
cH
co
Bh
co
2
3
i
Pd
at

f. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent
Order.

g. “Relevant Period” includes from July 1, 2016, to the Effective Date.

h. “Respondent” means PHLoans.com, Inc., and its successors and

assigns.

V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions
The Bureau finds the following:

PHLoans is a California corporation with its principal place of business in
Irvine, California. From 2012 through at least April 2019, PHLoans was

known as Pacific Home Loans, Inc.

PHLoans is licensed as a mortgage broker or lender in about 11 states.
PHLoans is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(19),

Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.F.R. §

1014.2, because it is a corporation.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

AAA Reker anAme
POOL RCE LOA
a Be a Bat Nat :

g
o
D
2
2
ad
oS)
cS
BD
a:
2
3
D
3

During the Relevant Period, PHLoans has been a “covered person” under the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages in
offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer
financial product[s] or service[s|” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6),
(15)(A)(i).

During the Relevant Period, PHLoans has been subject to the MAP Rule
because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58.
12 C.F.R. § 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 548114).

PHLoans provides “mortgage credit product[s],” as that term is defined in
the MAP Rule. 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

PHLoans’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
in 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, PHLoans has offered “closed-end credit” in the
form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10) & (11).

PHLoans’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end

credit,” as that term is defined in Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10).
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

AAA Reker anAme
POOL RCE LOA
in bad Be KP nd Nt

>
2
ae
4
of
os
2
ah
ae
oe
oo
hh
ct
J
it
a
%)
a

PHLoans offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed by
the VA.

PHLoans’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, including veterans
and servicemembers.

Since July 2016, PHLoans has mailed millions of mortgage advertisements

to consumers in at least 13 states.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations

Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, PHLoans was responsible for both the content of,
and the dissemination of, numerous mortgage advertisements during the
Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements,
as described below.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate
Representations About Cost and Other Credit Terms

Most of PHLoans’s mortgage advertisements stated specific credit terms,
such as an interest rate or a payment amount.
By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, PHLoans represented,

expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a mortgage with those
24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

AQAA Poh mame
POOL RCE LOA
in bad Be KP nd Nt :

>
2
ae
4
of
os
2
ah
ae
wie
oo
hh
ct
J
it
a
6)
%)
a

credit terms.

In fact, PHLoans did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific credit
terms stated in many of those advertisements.

In numerous instances, PHLoans misrepresented the actual credit terms
applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

Numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements misrepresented the payment
amount applicable to the advertised mortgage or the existence, nature, or
amount of cash available to the consumer in connection with the advertised
mortgage.

For example, PHLoans advertisements sent to 25 consumers from May 2018
through July 2018 stated that the consumer could “Take” a $20,000 cash-out
amount for “ONLY $95.68 PER MONTH.” In fact, PHLoans did not offer a
product with those terms. A cash-out amount was only available if the
consumer had an existing mortgage and refinanced the entire amount owed
on that mortgage as part of a cash-out refinance mortgage loan obtained from
PHLoans, resulting in a total monthly payment greater than $95.68.
Numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements misrepresented the existence
and amount of fees or costs to the consumer.

Specifically, PHLoans advertisements sent to around 26,000 consumers from

October 2016 to November 2016 stated “No Out of Pocket Expenses.”
30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

AQAA Poh mame
POOL RCE LOA
in bad Be KP nd Nt :

>
2
ae
4
of
os
2
ah
ae
wie
oo
hh
ct
J
it
a
%)
a

All VA loans have closing costs. But for at least one of the products featured
in these advertisements, consumers would need to directly pay out-of-pocket
expenses at closing. Accordingly, in connection with the loan that PHLoans
was advertising, the statement “No Out of Pocket Expenses” was false.
Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 26 to
30 were likely to be misled by them.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

Inadequate Disclosures
Many of PHLoans’s mortgage advertisements stated a payment amount or a
simple annual rate of interest. Under certain sections of Regulation Z,
including § 1026.24(d) and (f), the use of these terms triggers specific
disclosure requirements. Many of the advertisements did not include the
other disclosures that are required, or did not include them in the manner
required.
For example, numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements stated a payment
amount, but failed to state the terms of repayment reflecting the consumer’s
repayment obligations over the full term of the loan.
Specifically, PHLoans advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to

around 26,000 consumers from October 2016 to November 2016 stated a
36.

37.

38.

ARAA AAP ANA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
Sn 2 SP et ae BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

monthly payment amount of $1,394 that applied to the 3-year fixed rate
period of the loan. After the first three years, the rate was adjustable by as
much as 1% per year with a lifetime cap of 5%. While higher monthly
payments would likely apply to the variable rate period of the loan, the
advertisements did not state the amounts of those payments.

Numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements stated a simple annual rate of
interest for a loan for which more than one interest rate would apply, but
failed to state, for variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by adding an
index and margin, based on a reasonably current index and margin.

For example, PHLoans advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to
over 154,000 consumers in 2017 stated a simple annual rate of interest that
applied to the fixed-rate period of the loan (such as the first five years), but
for the variable-rate period of the loan, failed to state a rate determined by
adding a reasonably current index and margin.

Numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements stated a payment amount, but
failed to state the amount of each payment that would apply over the term of
the loan (e.g., for adjustable-rate mortgages, payments based on the
application of the sum of a reasonably current index and margin); or failed to
state clearly and conspicuously that the actual payment obligation would be

greater.
39.

40.

41.

42.

2020-BCFP-0009 Document1 Filed 08/26/2020 Page 11 of 39

For example, PHLoans advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to
around 39,214 consumers in 2017 stated a payment amount that was based
on an introductory, discount rate that applied only to the fixed-rate period of
the loan. That payment was not calculated based on the index and margin
that would be used to make subsequent payment adjustments over the
remaining term of the loan, and the advertisements failed to state such a
payment amount.

In addition, PHLoans advertisements sent to around 50,900 consumers in
2017 stated a payment amount, but failed to state, clearly and conspicuously,
that the actual payment obligation would be greater.

VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION Z
Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a), “[i]f an advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”

PHLoans violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 22-30,
numerous PHLoans advertisements for credit stated specific credit terms
other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or offered by

the creditor.
43.

44,

45.

2020-BCFP-0009 Document1 Filed 08/26/2020 Page 12 of 39

Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), if an advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t|he terms of repayment, which reflect
the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, including any
balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), (2)(11).

PHLoans violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs 27 and
34-35, numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements set forth the period of
repayment, which is a triggering term under § 1026.24(d)(1)(i1), but failed to
state the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, pursuant to §

1026.24(d)(2)(i1).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(i)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(i), if'a direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annual rate of interest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) Each simple annual rate of interest that will apply.
In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by
adding an index and margin shall be disclosed based on
AAAS RRR Aas Pe en aud A Pere AD PE FN PR Panwa OO Las
2OP ORE RELOOOAS Pocument 7 Pilad G8 f/oRfreaso Pane Ta of 3S
Band tn at RP EE OEE et tel KEE seus PoP oT Oe : SA Bir Ld wr ae

a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each simple
annual rate of interest will apply; and

(C) The [APR] for the loan. If such rate is variable, the
[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
§§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

46. PHLoans violated § 1026.24(f)(2)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs 36-
37, numerous PHLoans direct-mail mortgage advertisements for a loan for
which more than one interest rate would apply stated a simple annual rate of
interest but did not include one or more of the disclosures required pursuant

to § 1026.24(f)(2)(i)(A) through (C), or did not disclose them clearly and

conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(2)(i1).
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(@)

47. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3 )(1), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the amount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that will apply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be

disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first lien on a
48.

49.

50.

2020-BCFP-0009 Document1 Filed 08/26/2020 Page 14 of 39

dwelling, the fact that the payments do not include amounts

for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the

actual payment obligation will be greater.
PHLoans violated § 1026.24(f)(3)() because, as described in Paragraphs 38-
40 numerous PHLoans direct-mail mortgage advertisements stated the
amount of a payment but did not include one or more of the disclosures
required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(3)G)(A) through (C), or did not disclose
them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(3)(i1).

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP RULE (REGULATION N)

Misrepresentations About Fees or Costs, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t|he existence,
nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer associated with the
mortgage credit product, including but not limited to misrepresentations that
no fees are charged.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is
specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

PHLoans violated § 1014.3(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 28-30,
numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer

associated with a mortgage credit product.
SI.

52.

53.

ARAN SS AMA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
SSP eM ue BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 C.F.R. § 1014.3())

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3q), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, including but not limited to
misrepresentations that the consumer will receive a certain amount of cash
or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
PHLoans violated § 1014.3(j) because, as described in Paragraphs 26-27,
numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available to the consumer in

connection with the mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations About Payments, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he existence,
number, amount, or timing of any minimum or required payments, including

but not limited to misrepresentations about any payments or that no
54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

2020-BCFP-0009 Document1 Filed 08/26/2020 Page 16 of 39

payments are required in a reverse mortgage or other mortgage credit
product.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

PHLoans violated § 1014.3(k) because, as described in Paragraphs 26-27,
numerous PHLoans mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the payments that would be required in connection with the advertised
mortgage credit product.

VIOLATIONS OF THE CFPA

Under the CFPA, it is unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-financial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Information that is likely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers.

Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms
In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 22-32, PHLoans’s

mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

2020-BCFP-0009 Document1 Filed 08/26/2020 Page 17 of 39

specific credit terms were available or would be arranged or offered by the
creditor, including representations about payment amounts and loan costs,
when in fact those specific credit terms were not available or were not terms
that PHLoans was actually prepared to arrange or offer.

PHLoans’s misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised credit
terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers acting
reasonably under the circumstances.

PHLoans’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or

decisions of consumers.

Therefore, PHLoans engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Violations of the CFPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule

Under the CFPA, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules

thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. 88 5536(a)(1)(A), 5481(14).

Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.
AAA PPA, ARMAS ~ toa peg OP TN EP — ae om
2H RE RAGA Mie issycinmt 4 Riad ARPA haAaan Rane TR Af 2G
MPR TELS Le PG WA RARE EAD EE od PoP? VAC hay ee Pon PM AS) wae

64. PHLoans’s violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 41-54, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12

U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

VI.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §8§

5563, 5565, that:

65. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, and
in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale
of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or
by implication:
1. Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to the following: the total

costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
66.

ARAN SS AMA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
SSP eM ue BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or
central characteristics; or
2. The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any

consumer.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or
offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following
affirmative actions:

a. Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and implied
claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.

b. In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement that states a cash-out
amount for a cash-out refinance mortgage and a monthly payment
amount only for the portion of that mortgage used to obtain that cash-
out amount, Respondent must disclose, Clearly and Prominently: (1)
that obtaining the stated cash-out amount requires the consumer to
refinance the entire amount of the consumer’s existing mortgage with
a new loan purchased from Respondent, and (2) the total monthly

payment amount(s) for such a refinanced mortgage.
C.

ARAN SUPE ANAS PN oe a mt AIA ISA mh OTN ES
2OP ORE RELOOOAS Pocument 7 Pidacd G8 foRfeoeo Mana SO of 3G
than Sad an at Rad Nat te AEN Ed PoPPRe a A a Ue : 2 bal FT rt

If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the
amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minimum:

1. The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

2. The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

3. The amount of each payment that will apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be disclosed
based on a reasonably current index and margin;

A, The period during which each payment will apply;

5. The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

6. The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based, and

7. The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate

may be increased after consummation, that fact.
2020-BCFP-0009 Document1 Filed 08/26/2020 Page 21 of 39

d. In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,

Respondent must:

1. State, Clearly and Prominently, that the product is an
“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” before the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

2. For each simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based on
an index and margin, base the rate on an index value in effect
on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior, and
disclose the index and margin; and

3. State that more information about adjustable rate mortgages is

available at https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201401_cfpb_

 

booklet_charm.pdf.

 

e. Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be

made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under

Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, must be:

1. In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments

triggering the required disclosures;
ARAR ALAR AAAS PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
Sn 2 SP et BaP ASP ETA eR OT PRS! A\Aly coke oa

2. Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

3. Otherwise compliant with Regulation Z, as applicable.

VIL.

Advertising Review

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

67. Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the following

affirmative actions:

a. Respondent’s Advertising Compliance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it is
compliant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims
made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

b. Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is

mailed to consumers, the Advertising Compliance Official must
APA PRR AM AS ~ : of pansy a are ae
SAA eee TE AAS Pree ey ceed of Clad MalKPogfoAaguny
Se eae Oe al ee ee LLL bo POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PRG EP eN SE PE et ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed POPPA A a ee

review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any
envelope, mailer, and enclosures—to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,
expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is disseminated. This requirement
applies whether the set is mailed as a single set or in multiple sets or
subsets. It also applies whether the set is mailed out at a single time or
over a period.

The Advertising Compliance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement
includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availability of the advertised rate(s). If the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy

of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all
68.

APA PRR AM AS ~ : of pansy a are ae
SAA eee TE AAS Pree ey ceed of Clad MalKPogfoAaguny
Se eae Oe al ee ee LLL bo POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP EY ENE SP Si ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? 8 te AEN Ed POPPA A a ee

inputs assumed when calculating that number. If the advertisement
states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
include any materials used to determine the availability of that
amount.

d. The Advertising Compliance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VIII.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
mortgage advertising complies with all applicable Federal consumer
financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:
ARAA AAP ANA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
Sn 2 SP et ae BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent
Order; and
b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

69. The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 15 days.

70. After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

MONETARY PROVISIONS
IX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
71. Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the

violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
72.

73.

74.

SAA RSE RR AA ~ . A puss SO ee ro me oe
AOL BER AGAG Mie issycinmt 4 Riad ARPA haAaan RD ineven OR at RC
Sao Te WA BA AEN Pa POPS ASQ coker oe : AS 5 Balt Ad MPs

into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $260,000 to the Bureau.
The Respondent must make the following payments by wire transfer to the
Bureau or the Bureau’s agent, in compliance with the Bureau’s wiring
instructions, to satisfy the penalty described in Paragraph 71. Within 10 days
of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay $160,000. Within 60 days of the
Effective Date, Respondent must pay an additional $100,000.
The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil

money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
75.

70.

ARAN SS AMA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
SSP eM ue BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

X.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as

amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
77.

78.

79.

ARAN SS AMA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
SSP eM ue BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be used
for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out
of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
XI.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
80.

81.

ARAA AAP ANA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
Sn 2 SP et BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. Identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet

addresses; and
APA PRR AM AS ~ : of pansy a are ae
SAA eee TE AAS Pree ey ceed of Clad MalKPogfoAaguny
Se eae Oe al ee ee LLL bo POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PRG EP eN SE PE et ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed POPPA A a ee

C. Describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 81 at least 30 days before the change or as soon
as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving
notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to
the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report
(Compliance Report) that has been approved by Respondent’s executive
officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;

b. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;

C. Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an

explanation of why any such instances occurred; and
84.

85.

86.

POPPA POA PA . aun pee Se PS ewe MD oo
2OP ORE RELOOOAS Pocument 7 Pilad G8 f/oRfreaso Pace Stoof 3
than Sad an at Rad Nat ut BA AEN Pa POPPA A ke a et GAS Ob AS

d. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
XII.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members (if any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.
For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject matter of

the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
87.

88.

89.

ARAN SS AMA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
SSP eM ue BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 85-86 and a copy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under
Paragraph 87.
XII.

Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12 C.F.R.
§ 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four
months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated the applicable
commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit

product, the following evidence of compliance with the MAP Rule:

a. Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well

as sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

b. | Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to
consumers; and

Cc. Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.

90. Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage
advertisements disseminated within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least

5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.
91.

92.

93.

94.

POO ORE BLOG Pocument 7 Pilea ORO GfS020 Pane Sd of 3o
on at te PE BA AEN Pa POPPA A a : A OOP TS Nat at

ties
Yn

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 67(c) for at

least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retain the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,
including any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
behalf; and

C. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses
to those complaints or requests.

Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 92 for at least
5 years after creation of the record.
Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraphs 89-93
available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.
XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
95.

96.

AAA SAP AMA ry, nt A Poy AA IAR IAA Pion OP Ak
POO ORE BLOG Pocument 7 Pilea ORO GfS020 Pane BS ath
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa BPP Ae eo a ea GAS Oot Nat NP

Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re
PHLoans.com, Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP-0009,” and send them by
overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb. gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements

of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those requirements.
97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

ARAN SS AMA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
SSP eM ue BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of

time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
102.

103.

APA PRR AM AS - : pansy PE TN ER ee ax ay ay eo
AHO _ BCC AIG Tiere isseant 4 San ROSIN Sines 2 AE
Se eae Oe al ee ee LLL bo POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PRG EP eN SE PE et ee et et fT bs SF fy

hn Sad ate RP Bat 8 RPA TAS Pd BPP Ae eo a ea s SAS 2 Xe

cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 103. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to

calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
104.

105.

106.

107.

ARAN SS AMA PA ee mt AIA ISA
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OR PRP aen
SSP eM ue BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINA WA coke eo ea

any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the Consent
Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 90-91 and 93-94 of this Consent Order
will terminate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired. All
other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the
Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are Subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all

applicable provisions of this Consent Order.
 

108.

109.

110.

2020-BCFP-0009 Document1 Filed 08/26/2020 Page 39 of 39

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any Violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

Hy
IT IS SO ORDERED, this 2 day of August, 2020.

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

39
