UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

   

) RECEIVED CFTC
In the Matter of: ) slit
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, ) CFTC Docket No. 17 ~ 21 “N Le
Ltd. ) Office of Proceedings
) Proceedings Clerk
Respondent. ) 2:02 pm Aug 07, 2017

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”) has reason to
believe that The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (““BTMU” or “Respondent”) has violated
Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act” or the “CEA”), 7 U.S.C.

§ 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether the
Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein, and to determine whether any order shall
be issued imposing remedial sanctions. |

IL.

In anticipation of the institution of administrative proceedings, the Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, the Respondent herein consents
to the entry and acknowledges service of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections
6(c) and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”)!

 

' The Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings and conclusions in

this proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a
party; provided, however, that the Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or
conclusions in this Order, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission, other
than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of this Order. Nor does the Respondent
consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings and conclusions in this Order consented to in
the Offer, by any other party in any other proceeding. )
Ill.

The Commission finds the following:

A. Summary

From at least July 2009 through December 2014 (the “Relevant Period”), BTMU — by
and through one of its traders (“Trader A”) — engaged in the disruptive trading practice of
“spoofing” in markets for a variety of futures products traded on designated contract markets in
the United States. These products included futures contracts based on United States treasury
notes, and Eurodollars. BTMU’s disruptive trading violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act.

In accepting the Respondent’s Offer, the Commission recognizes the Respondent’s
cooperation with the Division of Enforcement’s (“Division”) investigation of this matter. The
Commission notes that the Respondent promptly self-reported the misconduct and proactively
implemented large-scale remedial measures and process improvements to deter and detect
similar misconduct.

B. Respondent

The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, UFJ Ltd. “BTMU”) is a Japanese banking
corporation headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. As part of its business activities, BTMU engaged
during the Relevant Period in proprietary trading of futures contracts in the United States.
BTMU employed Trader A in one of its Tokyo offices. BTMU has been provisionally
registered with the Commission as a swap dealer since December 31, 2012.

C. Facts

 

1. BIMU’s Disruptive Trading

During the Relevant Period, BTMU employed a number of traders, including Trader A,
in its Tokyo offices. As part of his duties, Trader A traded a variety of futures contracts on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (“CME”) and the Chicago Board of Trade (“CBOT”), including
futures contracts based on United States treasury notes (“Treasuries”) and Eurodollars
(“Eurodollars”). Trader A accessed these markets through a trading platform from one of
BTMDU’s Tokyo offices.

During the Relevant Period, although largely in 2010 and 2011, Trader A placed multiple
orders for futures contracts with an intent to cancel the orders before their execution
(“spoofing”). Trader A spoofed a variety of futures contracts traded on the CME and CBOT,
including Treasuries and Eurodollars. Trader A’s spoofing strategies included submitting orders
on opposite sides of the same market at nearly the same time. In this pattern, Trader A first
placed one or more relatively small bids or offers (“Order 1”). Soon thereafter, in the same
market, Trader A entered one or more larger bids or offers (“Order 2”) while Order 1 rested live
in the market. Order 2 was placed on the opposite side of the market from Order 1. Hence, if
Order 1 was a bid, Order 2 was an offer, and vice versa. In many instances, Trader A then
received a partial or complete fill on Order 1, and then cancelled Order 2 before it was filled.

2
Trader A engaged in this spoofing activity in order to move the market in a direction favorable to
Order 1.

2. BIMU?’s Self-Reporting, Cooperation, and Remediation

Once aware of Trader A’s misconduct, BTMU promptly suspended Trader A and
reported the conduct to the Division. BTMU commenced an expansive internal review and
assisted the Division’s investigation of the conduct. BTMU’s assistance expedited the
Division’s investigation. At the same time, BTMU launched an overhaul of its systems and
controls and implemented a variety of enhancements to detect and prevent similar misconduct.
As part of this process, BTMU revised its policies, updated its training, and implemented
electronic systems to identify spoofing. BTMU’s automated anti-spoofing measures include
reviewing trading data and communications for suspicious activity.

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION
A, Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act — Spoofing Violations

Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act makes it unlawful for “[a]ny person to engage in any
trading, practice, or conduct on or subject to the rules of a registered entity that . . . is, is of the
character of, or is commonly known to the trade as, ‘spoofing’ (bidding or offering with the
intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution).” As described above, Trader A entered into
multiple bids or offers on a registered entity with the intent to cancel the bids or offers before
execution in violation of Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act. See, e.g., CFTC v. Oystacher, No. 15-
CV-09196 (N.D. Ill. Dec. 20, 2016); CFTC v. Nav Sarao Futures Ltd., 15-CV-3398 (N.D. Ill.
Nov. 14, 2016); CFTC v. Khara, No. 15 cv 03497 (S.D.N.Y. Mar 31, 2016).

B. Respondent B U_Is Liable for the Acts of Its Agents

Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Commission Regulation
1.2,17C.F.R. § 1.2 (2016), provide that the act, omission or failure of any official, agent or
other person acting for any individual, association, partnership, corporation or trust within the
scope of his employment or office shall be deemed the act, omission or failure of such
individual, association, partnership, corporation or trust. Under Section 2(a)(1)(B) and
Commission Regulation 1.2, principals are strictly liable for the actions of their agents. See, e.g.,
Rosenthal & Co. v. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986); Dohmen-Ramirez & Wellington
Advisory, Inc. vy. CFTC, 837 F.2d 847, 857-58 (9th Cir. 1988).

Trader A engaged in the conduct described herein within the course and scope of his
employment at BTMU. Therefore, BTMU is liable for the acts, omissions and failures of Trader
A, as described above, that constituted violations of Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act.

oo
A.

B.

V.

FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, the
Respondent violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act.

VI.

OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

The Respondent, without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, has
submitted the Offer in which it:

Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

Waives:

1, the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. a hearing;

3, all post-hearing procedures;

4, judicial review by any court;

5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that the Respondent may possess under the Equal Access to
Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules
promulgated by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the
Commission Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2016), relating to, or arising
from, this proceeding;

7. any and all claims that the Respondent may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253,
110 Stat. 847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121
Stat. 112, 204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the

entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

4
Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which the Respondent has consented in the Offer; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1. makes findings by the Commission that the Respondent violated Section
4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act;

2. orders the Respondent to cease and desist from violating Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of
the Act;

3. orders the Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of six

hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) plus post-judgment interest; and

4, orders the Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the
conditions, undertakings, and representations consented to in the Offer and as set
forth in Part VII of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VIL.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

B.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act.

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty of six hundred thousand U.S. dollars
($600,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “CMP
Obligation”). Ifthe CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of the date of
entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the
Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C.

§ 1961 (2012). Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer,
U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If
payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be
made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address
below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMK-326
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

5
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
(405) 954-7262 office
(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of
the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors,
assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control shall take any action or
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or
conclusions in this Order, or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this
Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision
shall affect Respondent’s (1) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal
positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondent and its successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to
ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under its authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

2. Cooperation with the Commission:

 

i. Respondent shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission,
including the Division, and any other governmental agency in this action,
and in any investigation, civil litigation or administrative matter related to
the subject matter of this action or any current or future Commission
investigation related thereto. As part of such cooperation, Respondent
agrees to the following for a period of five (5) years from the date of the
entry of this Order, or until all related investigations and litigation are
concluded, including through the appellate review process, whichever
period is longer:

a. Preserve all records relating to the subject matter of this
proceeding, including, but not limited to, audio files, electronic
mail, other documented communications, and trading records;

b. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, comply fully,
promptly, completely, and truthfully with all inquiries and requests
for information or documents;

6
c. Provide authentication of documents and other evidentiary

material;

. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, provide copies of

documents within Respondent’s possession, custody or control;

. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, Respondent will make

its best efforts to produce any current (as of the time of the request)
officer, director, employee, or agent of Respondent, regardless of
the individual’s location, and at such location that minimizes
Commission travel expenditures, to provide assistance at any trial,
proceeding, or Commission investigation related to the subject
matter of this proceeding, including, but not limited to, requests for
testimony, depositions, and/or interviews, and to encourage them
to testify completely and truthfully in any such proceeding, trial, or
investigation; and

. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, Respondent will make

its best efforts to assist in locating and contacting any prior (as of
the time of the request) officer, director, employee, or agent of
Respondent.

3. Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by
the Commission of partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
remaining balance.

4. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full its

 

CMP Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Respondent shall provide
written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to its telephone
number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Dated: August 7, 2017

 

Seth Wo $edire

Robert N. Sidman
Deputy Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

 
