cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Files Suit Against Mortgage Creditor for
Discriminatory Mortgage-Lending Practices

JUL 15, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) today filed a
lawsuit against Townstone Financial, Inc., a nonbank retail-mortgage creditor based in
Chicago, for violations of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA); its implementing
regulation, Regulation B; and the Consumer Financial Protection Act (CFPA). ECOA and
Regulation B prohibit mortgage lenders from discriminating against applicants in credit
transactions on the basis of race, color, national origin, or other prohibited bases. ECOA
and Regulation B also prohibit mortgage lenders from making statements, or engaging in
acts or practices, that would discourage, on a prohibited basis, applicants or prospective
applicants from applying for credit. The Bureau's complaint alleges that Townstone violated
ECOA and Regulation B by engaging in discriminatory mortgage-lending practices and that
these violations also constituted violations of the CFPA.

As alleged in the complaint, from 2014 through 2017, Townstone drew almost no
applications for properties in African-American neighborhoods located in the Chicago-
Naperville-Elgin Metropolitan Statistical Area (Chicago MSA) and few applications from
African Americans throughout the Chicago MSA. The Bureau's complaint, filed in federal
district court in the Northern District of Illinois, alleges that:

=» Townstone engaged in acts or practices, including making statements during its weekly
radio shows and podcasts through which it marketed its services, that illegally discouraged
prospective African-American applicants from applying to Townstone for mortgage loans;

= Townstone engaged in illegal redlining by engaging in acts or practices that discouraged
prospective applicants living in African-American neighborhoods in the Chicago MSA from
applying to Townstone for mortgage loans, including by making discouraging statements
during its weekly radio shows and podcasts through which it marketed its services; and

=» Townstone engaged in illegal redlining by engaging in acts or practices that discouraged
prospective applicants living in other areas from applying to Townstone for mortgage loans
for properties located in African-American neighborhoods in the Chicago MSA, including
by making discouraging statements during its weekly radio shows and podcasts through
which it marketed its services.

The Bureau's complaint seeks an injunction against Townstone, as well as damages, redress
to consumers, and the imposition of a civil money penalty.

The Bureau's complaint is not a finding or ruling that Townstone has violated the law.

A copy of the complaint filed in federal district court in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois is available here:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_townstone-financial_complaint_2020-

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION
If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
