#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, March 23, 2016

Miami Businessman Pleads Guilty to Foreign Bribery and Fraud Charges in Connection with
Venezuela Bribery Scheme

The owner of multiple U.S.-based energy companies pleaded guilty yesterday to foreign bribery and fraud charges for his role in a scheme to
corruptly secure energy contracts from Venezuela’s state-owned and state-controlled energy company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA).

Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern
District of Texas, Acting Special Agent in Charge Sean McElroy of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security
Investigations (ICE-HSI) in Houston and Special Agent in Charge Rick Goss of Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-Cl) Houston
Field Office made the announcement.

Abraham Jose Shiera Bastidas (Shiera), 52, of Coral Gables, Florida, pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court before U.S. District Judge Gray H.
Miller of the Southern District of Texas in Houston to one count of conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and commit
wire fraud and one count of violating the FCPA. Sentencing is scheduled for July 8, 2016. Four others charged in relation to the case have
pleaded guilty, including three foreign officials.

“The five convictions announced today hold to account bribe payors as well as the corrupt foreign officials who laundered the bribe money
through the United States,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “These individual prosecutions are the result of a tenacious and
coordinated effort by our prosecutors and agents to unravel a complex web of bribes paid to Venezuelan officials. And they demonstrate our
commitment to building cases from the ground up, instead of counting on companies and other wrongdoers to self-disclose their crimes.”

“The pleas of guilty in this case are the result of the strict enforcement of the FCPA in this district,” said U.S. Attorney Magidson. “Bribery under
this law is a serious federal crime that undermines commercial and political relations around the world. This case is an example of our reach to
expose this criminal conduct.”

Shiera was arrested in Miami on Dec. 16, 2015, after a federal grand jury returned an 18-count indictment against him and Roberto Enrique
Rincon Fernandez (Rincon), 55, of The Woodlands, Texas. According to admissions made in connection with Shiera’s plea, Shiera and Rincon
worked together to submit bids to provide equipment and services to PDVSA through their various companies. Shiera admitted that beginning
in 2009, he and Rincon agreed to pay bribes and other things of value to PDVSA purchasing analysts to ensure that his and Rincon’s companies
were placed on PDVSA bidding panels, which enabled the companies to win lucrative energy contracts with PDVSA. Shiera also made bribe
payments to other PDVSA officials in order to ensure that his companies were placed on PDVSA-approved vendor lists and given payment
priority so that they would get paid ahead of other PDVSA vendors with outstanding invoices, he admitted.

“The corruption of foreign officials through bribery has a damaging impact on the stability of trade, industries and even nations,” said Acting
Special Agent in Charge McElroy. “HSI and our partners will tirelessly investigate anyone who cultivates the corruption of officials abroad and
bribe their way to financial gain.”

“Bribery and corruption undermines honest, free enterprise and creates an atmosphere of back room dealing that impairs the ability for honest
businesses to compete,” said Special Agent in Charge Goss. “IRS-Cl tirelessly untangles the web of illicit transactions that lead to corrupt
individuals being held accountable.”

Judge Miller also unsealed charges yesterday against four other individuals charged in connection with the investigation. In January 2016,
Moises Abraham Millan Escobar (Millan), 32, of Katy, Texas, pleaded guilty under seal to one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA for his role
in the PDVSA bribery scheme. Millan was Shiera’s former employee. In December 2015, three former PDVSA officials, Jose Luis Ramos Castillo
(Ramos), 38; Christian Javier Maldonado Barillas (Maldonado), 39; and Alfonzo Eliezer Gravina Munoz (Gravina), 53, all from Katy, each pleaded
guilty under seal to conspiracy to commit money laundering. As part of their guilty pleas, Ramos, Maldonado and Gravina each admitted that
while employed by PDVSA or its wholly owned subsidiaries or affiliates, they accepted bribes from Shiera and Rincon in exchange for taking
certain actions to assist companies owned by Shiera and Rincon in winning energy contracts with PDVSA. Ramos, Maldonado and Gravina also
admitted that they conspired with Shiera and Rincon to launder the proceeds of the bribery scheme. Gravina also pleaded guilty to making
false statements on his 2010 federal income tax return by failing to report the bribe payments he received from Shiera, Rincon and others. As
part of their plea agreements, Shiera, Millan, Ramos, Maldonado and Gravina all agreed to forfeit proceeds of their criminal activity.

The charges against Rincon remain pending. He is charged with one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA and commit wire fraud, one count
of conspiracy to commit money laundering, seven counts of money laundering and four counts of violating the FCPA. Rincon was ordered
detained pending trial following a detention hearing held on Dec. 18, 2015, before U.S. Magistrate Judge Nancy K. Johnson of the Southern
District of Texas. The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and Rincon is presumed innocent unless and until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.

ICE-HSI and IRS-CI are conducting the ongoing investigation with assistance from the FBI. Trial Attorneys Aisling O’Shea and Jeremy R. Sanders
of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Deputy Chief John Pearson and Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert S. Johnson of the Southern District of
Texas are prosecuting the case. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kristine Rollinson and Vincent Carroll of the Southern District of Texas are handling the
forfeiture aspects of the case.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs also provided assistance.
Additional information about the department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
StopFraud

Component(s):

Criminal Division

Criminal - Criminal Fraud Section
USAO - Texas, Southern

 

Press Release Number:
16-334

Updated August 10, 2016
