U.S. Department of Justice

Criminal Division

 

 

Fraud Section Washington, D.C. 20530

December 22, 2016

Eric W. Sitarchuk, Esq.

Alison Tanchyk, Esq.

Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP
1701 Market Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103

Re: General Cable Corporation Criminal Investigation
Dear Mr. Sitarchuk:

The United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud
Section”) and General Cable Corporation (“General Cable” or the “Company”) pursuant to
authority granted by General Cable’s Board of Directors, enter into this Non-Prosecution
Agreement (“Agreement’’).

The Fraud Section enters into this Agreement based on the individual facts and
circumstances presented by this case and the Company, including:

a) the Company received voluntary self-disclosure credit because it voluntarily and
timely disclosed to the Fraud Section the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached
hereto as Attachment A (the “Statement of Facts”);

b) the Company received full credit for its cooperation with the Fraud Section’s
investigation, which included conducting a thorough internal investigation; making regular factual
presentations and proactively providing updates to the Fraud Section; voluntarily making foreign-
based employees available for interviews in the United States; producing documents, including
translations, to the Fraud Section from foreign countries in ways that did not implicate foreign
data privacy laws; collecting, analyzing, and organizing voluminous evidence and information for
the Fraud Section; and identifying, investigating, and disclosing conduct to the Fraud Section that
was outside the scope of its initial voluntary self-disclosure;

c) by the conclusion of the investigation, the Company had provided to the Fraud
Section all relevant facts known to it, including information about individuals and third parties
involved in the misconduct;

 

 
d) the Company has enhanced and has committed to the Fraud Section to continue to
enhance its compliance program and internal controls, including ensuring that its compliance
program satisfies the minimum elements set forth in Attachment B to this Agreement (Corporate
Compliance Program); the Company has engaged in extensive remedial measures, specifically by:
(1) terminating the employment or accelerating the previously-planned departures and
resignations of 13 employees who participated in the misconduct, (2) causing the resignation of 2
employees and accelerating the previously-planned departure of an additional employee who
failed to supervise effectively others who were engaged in the misconduct described in the
Statement of Facts, (3) causing the resignation of an additional employee who failed to take
appropriate steps in response to identifying the misconduct; (4) terminating the business
relationships with 47 third-party agents and distributors who participated in the misconduct
described in the Statement of Facts; (5) hiring a Chief Compliance Officer who has an executive
officer position in the Company and separate reporting lines to the CEO and Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors; (6) conducting a global and enterprise-wide risk assessment and
evaluation; (7) developing and implementing a risk mitigation plan for risks identified through the
assessment and evaluation; (8) developing a comprehensive compliance program that integrates
business functions into compliance leadership roles, is designed to deliver clear and consistent
communications and expectations Company-wide through policies and procedures, and includes
frequent leadership communications to all employees; (9) revamping the ethics and compliance
helpline; (10) delivering tailored face-to-face compliance training, including training on the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), to the Board of Directors and senior executives, Internal
Audit personnel, sales leaders, and all salaried employees; (11) adopting heightened controls on
the selection and use of third parties, including building a system for third-party due diligence that
assigns ownership to business personnel to shepherd prospective third parties through a
comprehensive risk assessment, review, and approval process; (12) issuing, and providing training
on, business amenities policies specific to certain countries; and (13) conducting on-site global
compliance audits to test adherence to enhanced controls and procedures;

e) based on the Company’s remediation and the state of its compliance program, and
the Company’s agreement to report to the Fraud Section as set forth in Attachment C to this
Agreement (Corporate Compliance Reporting), the Fraud Section determined that an independent
compliance monitor was unnecessary;

f) the Company has agreed to continue to cooperate with the Fraud Section in any
ongoing investigation of the conduct of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and their
officers, directors, employees, agents, business partners, distributors, and consultants relating to
violations of the FCPA;

g) the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct, including that certain high-level
executives responsible for overseeing international operations and employees of the Company
knowingly and willfully failed to implement adequate internal accounting controls over payments
to third parties despite knowing that third parties were making illegal payments; the illegal
payments occurred in at least five separate countries and over a ten-year span; and the profits to
the Company exceeded $50 million; and

 
hk) accordingly, after considering (a) through (e) above, the Company received an
aggregate discount of 50% off of the bottom of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range in
connection with this Agreement.

The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under United States
law for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth in the Statement of
Facts and incorporated by reference into this Agreement, and that the facts described in the
Statement of Facts are true and accurate. The Company expressly agrees that it shall not, through
present or future attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents, or any other person authorized
to speak for the Company make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise, contradicting the
acceptance of responsibility by the Company set forth above or the facts described in the
Statement of Facts. The Company agrees that if it or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries or
affiliates issues a press release or holds.any press conference in connection with this Agreement,
the Company shall first consult the Fraud-Section.to-determine: (a) whether the text of the release
or proposed statements at the press conference are true and accurate with respect to matters
between the Fraud Section and the Company; and (b) whether the Fraud Section has any objection
to the release.

The Company’s obligations under this Agreement shall have a term of three years from the
date on which the Agreement is executed (the “Term”).

The-Company shall cooperate fully with the Fraud Section in any and all matters relating
to the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of Facts and other conduct related to
corrupt payments, false books and records, and failure to implement adequate internal accounting
controls, and circumvention of internal controls under investigation by the Fraud Section, subject
to applicable law and regulations, until the later of the date upon which all investigations and
prosecutions arising out of such conduct are concluded or the end of the Term. At the request of
the Fraud Section, the Company shall also cooperate fully with other domestic or foreign law
enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as the Multilateral Development
Banks (“MDBs”), in any investigation of the Company, its parent company or its affiliates, or any
of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, and consultants, or any other party,
in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of
Facts, and other conduct related to corrupt payments, false books and records, and failure to
implement adequate internal accounting controls under investigation by the Fraud Section. The
Company agrees that its-cooperation-shall include, but not be limited_to,-the following:. 7”

a) The Company shall, subject to applicable law and regulation, truthfully disclose all
factual information not protected by a valid claim of attorney-client privilege or work-product
doctrine with respect to its activities, those of its affiliates, and those of its present and former
directors, officers, employees, agents, and consultants, including any credible evidence or
allegations and internal or external investigations, about which the Company has any knowledge
or about which the Fraud Section may inquire. This obligation of truthful disclosure includes, but
is not limited to, the obligation of the Company to provide to the Fraud Section, upon request, any
document, record or other tangible evidence about which the Fraud Section may inquire of the
Company.

 
b) Upon request of the Fraud Section, the Company shall designate knowledgeable
employees, agents or attorneys to provide to the Fraud Section the information and materials
described above on behalf of the Company. It is further understood that the Company must at all
times provide complete, truthful, and accurate information.

c) The Company shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews or
testimony, as requested by the Fraud Section, present or former officers, directors, employees,
agents, and consultants of the Company. This obligation includes, but is not limited to, sworn
testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, as well as interviews with domestic or
foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities. Cooperation shall include identification of
witnesses who, to the knowledge of the Company, may have material information regarding the
matters under investigation.

d) - With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records or other tangible _ -
evidence provided to the Fraud Section pursuant to this Agreement, the Company consents to any
and all disclosures, subject to applicable law and regulations, to other governmental authorities,
including United States authorities and those of a foreign government, as well as MDBs, of such
materials as the Fraud Section, in its sole discretion, shall deem appropriate.

In addition, during the Term of the Agreement, should the Company learn of any evidence
or allegation of conduct that would be a possible violation of the FCPA anti-bribery or accounting
provisions had the conduct occurred within the jurisdiction of the United States, the Company
shall promptly report such evidence or allegation to the Fraud Section. No later than thirty 30)
days after the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, the Company, by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, will certify to the Fraud.
Section that the Company has met its disclosure obligations pursuant to this Agreement. Such
certification will be deemed a material statement and representation by the Company to the
executive branch of the United States for purposes of 18 U.S.C. § 1001.

The Company represents that it has implemented and will continue to implement a
compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anticorruption laws throughout its operations, including those of its subsidiaries,
affiliates, agents, and joint ventures, and those of its contractors and subcontractors whose
responsibilities include interacting with foreign officials or other activities carrying a high risk of
corruption; including, but not limited-to; the mintmum:elements:set forth.in Attachment B... .
(Corporate Compliance Program), which is incorporated by reference into this Agreement. In
addition, the Company agrees that it will report to the Fraud Section annually during the Term of
the Agreement regarding remediation and implementation of the compliance measures described
in Attachment B. These reports will be prepared in accordance with Attachment C (Corporate
Compliance Reporting).

The Company agrees to pay a monetary penalty in the amount of $20,469,694.80 to the
United States Treasury within ten business days of the execution of the Agreement, and to pay
$51,174,237 in disgorgement of profits plus prejudgment interest. The monetary penalty is based.
upon profits of $51,174,237 as a result of the corrupt scheme, and reflects a discount of 50%-off
of the bottom of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range. The Fraud Section will credit the
disgorgement paid by the Company to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in

4

 

 
connection with its resolution of this matter. The Company acknowledges that no tax deduction
may be sought in connection with the payment of any part of the $20,469,694.80 penalty. The
Company shall not seek or accept directly or indirectly rembursement or indemnification from
any source with regard to the penalty or disgorgement amounts that the Company pays pursuant to
this Agreement or any other agreement concerning the facts set forth in the Statement of Facts
entered into with an enforcement authority or regulator.

The Fraud Section agrees, except as provided herein, that it will not bring any criminal or
civil case (except for criminal tax violations, as to which the Fraud Section does not make any
agreement) against the Company or any of its present or former parents or subsidiaries relating to:
(1) any of the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts. The Fraud Section, however,
may use any information related to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts
against the Company: (a) in a prosecution for perjury or obstruction of justice; (b) in a prosecution
for making a false statement; (c) in a prosecution or other proceeding relating to any crime of -
violence; or (d) in a prosecution or other proceeding relating to a violation of any provision of
Title 26 of the United States Code. This Agreement does not provide any protection against
prosecution for any future conduct by the Company or any of its present or former subsidiaries. In
addition, this Agreement does not provide any protection against prosecution of any individuals,
regardless of their affiliation with the Company.

If, during the Term of this Agreement: (a) the Company commits any felony under U.S.
federal law; (b) the Company prevides in connection with this Agreement deliberately false,
incomplete, or misleading information; (c) the Company fails to cooperate as set forth in this
Agreement; (d) the Company fails to implement a compliance program as set forth in this
Agreement and-Attachment C; (e) the Company commits any acts that, had they occurred within
the jurisdictional reach of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, would be a violation of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act; or (f) the Company otherwise fails to perform or to fulfill completely any
of the Company’s obligations under the Agreement, regardless of whether the Fraud Section
becomes aware of such a breach after the Term of the Agreement is complete, the Company, and
its subsidiaries and affiliates, shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal
violation of which the Fraud Section has knowledge, including, but not limited to, the conduct
described in the Statement of Facts, which may be pursued by the Fraud Section in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky or any other venue of its choosing.
Determination of whether the Company has breached the Agreement and whether to pursue
prosecution of the Company shall be if the Fraud Section’s sole discretion: Any such prosecution
may be premised on information provided by the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, among
other things. Any such prosecution relating to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts or
relating to conduct known to the Fraud Section prior to the date on which this Agreement was
signed that is not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of
this Agreement may be commenced against the Company, or its subsidiaries or affiliates,
notwithstanding the expiration of the statute of limitations, between the signing of this Agreement
and the expiration of the Term plus one year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the Company
agrees that the statute of limitations with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-barred on
the date of the signing of this Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. In addition,
the Company agrees that the statute of limitations as to any violation of U.S. federal law that
occurs during the Term will be tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs until the
earlier of the date upon which the Fraud Section is made aware of the violation or the duration of

5

 
the Term plus five years, and that this period shall be excluded from any calculation of time for
purposes of the application of the statute of limitations.

In the event the Fraud Section determines that the Company has breached its Agreement,
the Fraud Section agtees to provide the Company with written notice of such breach prior to
instituting any prosecution resulting from such breach. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such
notice, the Company shall have the opportunity to respond to the Fraud Section in writing to
explain the nature and circumstances of such breach, as well as the actions the Company have
taken to address and remediate the situation, which explanation the Fraud Section shall consider in
determining whether to pursue prosecution of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates.

In the event that the Fraud Section determines that the Company has breached this
Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates
to the Fraud Section or to the Court, including the Statement of Facts, and any testimony given by
the Company before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative hearings, whether
prior or subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads derived from such statements or testimony,
shall be admissible in evidence in any and all criminal proceedings brought by the Fraud Section
against the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates; and (b) the Company or its subsidiaries or
affiliates shall not assert any claim under the United States Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule
that any such statements or testimony made by or on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries or
affiliates prior or subsequent to this Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom, should be
suppressed or are otherwise inadmissible. The decision whether conduct or statements of any
current director; officer or. employee, or any person acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, the
Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates will be imputed to the Company for the purpose of
determining whether the Company has violated any provision of this Agreement shall be in the
sole discretion of the Fraud Section.

Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular
transaction, the Company agrees that in the event that, during the Term of the Agreement, it
undertakes any change in corporate form, including if it sells, merges, or transfers business
operations that are material to the Company’s consolidated operations, or to the operations of any
subsidiaries or affiliates involved in the conduct described in the Statement of Facts, as they exist
as of the date of this Agreement, whether such sale is structured as a sale, asset sale, merger,
transfer, or other change in corporate form, it shall include in any contract for sale, merger, --
transfer, or other change in corporate form a provision binding the purchaser, or any successor in
interest thereto, to the obligations described in this Agreement: The purchaser or successor in
interest must also agree in writing that the Fraud Section’s ability to declare a breach under this
Agreement is applicable in full force to that entity. The Company agrees that the failure to
include these provisions in the transaction will make any such transaction null and void. The
Company shall provide notice to the Fraud Section at least thirty days prior to undertaking any
such sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form. Ifthe Fraud Section notifies the
Company prior to such transaction (or series of transactions) that it has determined that the
transaction(s) has the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this
Agreement, as determined in the sole discretion of the Fraud Section, the Company agrees that
such transaction(s) will not be consummated. In addition, if at any time during the term of the
Agreement the Fraud Section determines in its sole discretion that the Company has engaged in a

6

 
transaction(s) that has the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this
Agreement, it may deem it a breach of this Agreement. Nothing herein shall restrict the Company
from indemnifying (or otherwise holding harmless) the purchaser or successor in interest for
penalties or other costs arising from any conduct that may have occurred prior to the date of the
transaction, so long as such indemnification does not have the effect of circumventing or
frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as determined by the Fraud Section

This Agreement is binding on the Company and the Fraud Section but specifically does
not bind any other component of the Department of Justice, other federal agencies, or any state,
local, or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, or any other authorities, although the
Fraud Section will bring the cooperation of the Company and its compliance with its other
obligations under this Agreement to the attention of such agencies and authorities if requested to
do so by the Company.

It is further understood that the Company and the Fraud Section may disclose this
Agreement to the public.

This Agreement sets forth all the terms of the agreement between the Company and the
Fraud Section. No amendments, modifications, or additions to this Agreement shall be valid
unless they are in writing and signed by the Fraud Section, the attorneys for the Company, and a
duly authorized representative of the Company.

Sincerely,

Andrew Weissmann, Chief
Daniel Kahn, Deputy Chief
Criminal Division, Fraud Section

US. AL of of.

Yom Cestaro, Trial Attorney
Lorinda Laryea, Trial Attorney

Date: la [2a | Ber &

 

 

AGREED AND CONSENTED TO:

GENERAL CABLE CORPORATION A VW,
Date: | Of OX / goo By:

Emerson C. Moser, Esq.

Date: 13/00) FVI lp By: (WV) Th

Eric W. Sitarchuk, Esq. /
Alison Tanchyk, Esq.
Counsel for General Cable Corp.

 
ATTACHMENT A

STATEMENT OF FACTS

The following Statement of Facts is incorporated by reference as part of the Non-
Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement”) between the United States Department of Justice,
Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”) and the defendant General Cable
Corporation (“General Cable” or the “Company”). General Cable hereby agrees and stipulates that
the following information is true and accurate. General Cable admits, accepts, and acknowledges
that it is responsible for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth below.

Relevant General Cable Entities

1. General Cable, a Delaware corporation headquartered in Kentucky, manufactured,
distributed, and installed cable and wire globally. General Cable engaged in its business through
various subsidiaries around the world, and General Cable maintained separate geographic divisions
which oversaw operations of its subsidiaries in the carrying out of General Cable’s business.
General Cable’s shares were publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange and it was an
“Gssuer” within the meaning of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (““FCPA”), Title 15, United States
Code, Sections 78dd-1(a) and 78m(b).

2. General Cable Celcat, Energia e Telecomunicacoes, S.A. (“General Cable Celcat”)
was an indirect subsidiary of General Cable, headquartered in Portugal. General Cable Celcat’s
financial statements were consolidated into the financial statements of General Cable, and General
Cable Celcat was under the responsibility of the General Cable Europe and Mediterranean division.
General Cable Celcat sold cable and wire in Portugal and Angola.

3. General Cable Condel, Cabos de Enesgia e Telecomunicacoes SA (“General Cable
Condel”) was an indirect subsidiary of General Cable, headquartered in Angola. General Cable

Condel’s financial statements were consolidated into the financial statements of General Cable

A-l

 

 
through their consolidation into General Cable Celcat’s financial statements, and General Cable
Condel was under the responsibility of the General Cable Europe and Mediterranean division.
General Cable Condel sold cable and wire in Angola.

4, General Cable (Tianjin) Alloy Products Company Limited (“General Cable China”)
was an indirect subsidiary of General Cable, headquartered in China. General Cable China’s
financial statements were consolidated into the financial statements of General Cable, and General
Cable China was under the responsibility of the General Cable Asia Pacific division. General
Cable China sold cable and wire in China. General Cable China was acquired by General Cable on
or around December 2012.

5. Until its sale in August 2015, Phelps Dodge International (Thailand) Ltd. (“PDTL”),
was an indirect subsidiary of General Cable, headquartered in Thailand. PDTL’s financial
statements were consolidated into the financial statements of General Cable, and PDTL was under
the responsibility of the General-Cable Asia Pacific division. PDTL sold cable and wire in
Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand. PDTL was acquired by General Cable on or
around October 31, 2007.

6. “Fxecutive A,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud Section and to
General Cable, was an officer at PDTL from 2010 to 2012, and beginning in December 2012 was a
high-level executive at General Cable based in Thailand.

Overview of the Schemes

7. General Cable, acting through certain executives and employees, including
Executive A, knew that certain of its foreign subsidiaries used certain third-party agents and
distributors to make corrupt payments to foreign officials in order to obtain and retain business in

certain countries.

A-2

 
8. Nonetheless, General Cable knowingly and willfully failed to implement and
maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls designed to detect and prevent
corruption or otherwise illegal payments by its agents. In particular and as relevant here, General
Cable had deficient internal accounting controls that did not require and/or ensure, among other
things (a) due diligence for the retention of third party agents and distributors; (b) proof that
services had been rendered by third parties before payment could be made to them; (c) oversight of
the payment process to ensure that payments were made pursuant to contractual terms or that
payments were reasonable and legitimate. General Cable knowingly and willfully failed to address
these known weaknesses, in relevant part, to allow the conduct to continue.

9. As aresult, General Cable and its subsidiaries made more than $13 million in
payments to third-party agents and distributors which were used to make unlawful payments to
secure approximately $51 million in profits to General Cable.

Angola

10. General Cable conducted business in Angola through General Cable Celcat and
General Cable Condel. The majority of the company’s sales in Angola were made to state-owned
customers, including Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 1, Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 2, and
Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 3.

11... Between 2003 and 2013, General Cable Celcat and General Cable Condel made
corrupt payments, i.e. bribes, to employees of Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 1, Angolan State-
Owned Enterprise 2, and Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 3, and other state-owned customers to
obtain and retain business in Angola. Specifically: (i) between 2003 and 2009, General Cable
Celcat and General Cable Condel paid more than $450,000 directly to officials at Angolan State-
Owned Enterprise 1, Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 2, and Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 3;

(ii) between 2009 and 2013, General Cable Condel paid more than $8.7 million to a sales agent in

A-3

 
Angola with knowledge that the sales agent would, and did, pass a portion of those payments to
officials at Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 1, Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 2, and Angolan
State-Owned Enterprise 3; and (iii) General Cable Condel paid more than $150,000 to another ~
agent with knowledge that the payments would be passed on, in part, to two officials of a state-
owned customer.

12. General Cable, General Cable Celcat and General Cable Condel, acting through
their employees or agents, communicated about the.scheme via e-mail, among other means of
communication. For example, on or about October 22, 2002, a General Cable Condel senior
executive wrote an e-mail to a General Cable Celcat employee stating: “I agreed with [an Angolan
State-Owned Enterprise | employee] on a commission of 2% on orders placed, which at this stage
will be through General Cable Condel; I propose to work through objectives, on an identical basis
with [Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 2].”

13. Similarly, on or about September 12; 2005, a General Cable Condel employee wrote
an e-mail to a General Cable Celcat employee stating: “Everyone knew that [an Angolan State-
Owned Enterprise 2 official] was being paid (if not there would be no need for the bills that come
from there); when the contract was signed, this was what was agreed had to be paid.”

14. Beginning in or around May 2009, General Cable Celcat and General Cable Condel
concealed the payments to the Angolan officials through the use ofa third-party sales agent.
General Cable Condel contracted with the sales agent to provide commercial assistance services in
Angola, but General Cable Celcat and General Cable Condel in fact used the sales agent as an
intermediary to funnel corrupt payments to Angolan officials.

15. On or about December 19, 2012, General Cable executives received an internal
audit report from General Cable’s internal audit department. The audit report summarized the

findings of the audit; which included, among other things, identifying that: (i) payments made to
A-4

 
the third-party sales agent far exceeded the amounts required under the contract with the agent, and
(ii) the contract with the third-party sales agent did not include anti-corruption language. In
addition, the audit report recommended that General Cable establish a global policy regarding the
use of agents and sales representatives. Thereafter, the Company failed to establish adequate
internal accounting controls and General Cable Condel continued to make corrupt payments to the
agent in excess of the contractually required amounts.

16. For example, on September 5, 2013, General Cable Condel paid the sales agent in
Angola approximately $223,433. General Cable Condel employees knew that the sales agent
would. give at least part of that payment to government officials in Angola, including an Angolan
State-Owned Enterprise 2 official and an Angolan State-Owned Enterprise 3 director.

17. General Cable Celcat and General Cable Condel falsely recorded the payments
made directly to the foreign officials as payments for third-party consulting services, and falsely
recorded the payments to the sales agent as offsets against sales.

Bangladesh, Indonesia, and Thailand

18. General Cable conducted business in Bangladesh, Indonesia, and Thailand through
PDTL. Between 2010 and 2014, PDTL made corrupt payments, i.e, bribes, to obtain business in
Bangladesh and Indonesia. Specifically, PDTL paid: (i) more than $2 million to two freight
forwarders.in Indonesia with the understanding.that the freight forwarders would use the money, in
part, for corrupt purposes; and (ii) $43,700 to an agent in Bangladesh with the understanding that
the agent would use the money, in part, for corrupt purposes. General Cable was aware of red
flags in connection with these payments and ultimately became aware of, or at the very least were
willfully blind to, certain of the corrupt payments.

19. General Cable and PDTL, acting through their employees and agents,

communicated about the scheme via e-mail, among other means of communication. For example,

A-5

 
on. or about March 11, 2010, a PDTL employee wrote an e-mail describing the services of a
principal of the two freight forwarders in Indonesia, stating “[LJike I mention it before, my agent
doesn’t ask for any money upfront. He can afford to pay his way in and out of PLN [Perusahaan
Listrik Negara, the Indonesia-state-owned electricity company].”

-20. Similarly, on or about June 18, 2012, an employee of a Bangladeshi sales agent
emailed multiple PDTL employees, including Executive A, and stated that a portion of the money
that PDTL was paying the sales agent would “be shared by decision makers in customer,
concerned higher ups in Ministry and some top executives at bidder.”

21. On or about May 5, 2013, Executive A approved an approximately $43,700
payment to the Bangladeshi sales agent.

22. In addition, from 2012 to 2013, PDTL provided more than $1.5 million in rebates to
a distributor in Thailand with the understanding that the distributor would use the money, in part,
for corrupt purposes in association with PDTL’s sales to.state-owned customers in Thailand,
including sales to: (i) the Provincial Electricity Authority, a state-owned electricity supplier in
Thailand; (ii) the Metropolitan Electricity Authority, a state-owned electricity supplier in Thailand;
and (iii) TOT Public Company Limited, a state-owned telecommunications company.

23. In or about 2011, Executive A met with a high-level executive at General Cable
with responsibility for overseeing international operations and expressed concerns that payments to
the distributor in Thailand were being used for corrupt purposes. Despite this conversation, the
corrupt payments did not stop, nor was an investigation conducted.

24. On December 13, 2011, the same high-level executive at General Cable received
emails that included the following statement regarding the findings ofa tax review in Thailand:
“potential applicability of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA’) for commissions paid to

Thai governmental authorities.” Another email from a General Cable employee with responsibility

A-6

 
for corporate taxes stated: “[s]ince this is a legal matter rather than tax, no need to do anything
further for me. I will leave it up to you as to whether you want to look into any further.” General
Cable took no further action and did not take any steps to implement adequate internal accounting
controls. The corrupt payments made through intermediary companies in Thailand and elsewhere
continued and General Cable failed to enhance its deficient internal controls.

25. Thus, even if senior employees of General Cable were unaware initially that the
payments to the distributor were being used for illegal purposes, employees at PDTL and General
Cable, including Executive A, came to the understanding that money being paid to the distributor
was being used for illegal purposes, and closed their eyes to it being used for bribery.

26. Indeed, shortly after the meeting and email referenced in paragraphs 16 and 17
above, to conceal the true nature of the payments to the distributor, employees of PDTL ceased
booking the payments as “success fees,” which they viewed as overly suspicious, and instead
established a rebate structure on unrelated sales to the distributor that falsely reflected the nature of
the payments. General Cable ultimately became aware that PDTL falsely recorded the payments to
the distributor in the company’s books as “Cash Discounts” and “Discount-Customer Rebates.”

China

27. General Cable conducted business in China through General Cable China, among

 

other entities..The-majority of the company’s. sales in China were made to state-owned customers... -

through distributors or with the assistance of sales agents.

28. Between in or around December 2012 and 2015, General Cable China made corrupt
payments to obtain and retain business in China. Specifically, General Cable China paid more than
$500,000 to China-based agents and distributors, typically in the form of rebates, special discounts,
and technical service fees. General Cable China knew that the third-party agents and distributors

would use the money, in part, for corrupt purposes.

A-7
29. Executive A was the General Cable Executive that was responsible for General
Cable China’s business beginning in or around December 2012 until his departure from the
Company.

30. General Cable China, acting through its employees and agents, communicated about
the scheme via e-mail, among other means of communication. For example, on or about August
14, 2013, a General Cable China employee sought approval from a General Cable China supervisor
to provide additional money to a distributor in the form of a discount in association with a sale to a
China-state-owned end-customer. The General Cable China employee emailed the supervisor and
justified the corrupt payment, stating that “a few key players at [the state-owned customer] are our
internal contacts and charge a certain amount of fees. If we are looking to have long-term
cooperation with them, charges for this is rather inevitable.”

31. Similarly, on or about February 26, 2014, a General Cable China internal document
outlined the reasons General Cable China provided special discounts to.a distributor in association
with sales to a state-owned end-customer, and stated: “[o]n July 17, 2013, processed the consulting

fee of 20,000 [yuan] for [a state-owned end-customer employee] with 10,900 [yuan] remaining.”

 
ATTACHMENT B
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
In order to address any deficiencies in its internal controls, compliance codes, policies,
and procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), 15
U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, ef seq., and other applicable anticorruption laws, General Cable Corporation
(“General Cable”), on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries and affiliates, agrees to continue to
conduct, in a manner consistent with all of its obligations under this Agreement, appropriate
reviews of its existing internal controls, policies, and procedures.

Where necessary and appropriate, General Cable agrees to adopt new or to modify
existing internal controls, compliance codes, policies, and procedures in order to ensure that it
maintains: (a) a system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure that General Cable
makes and keeps fair and accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous
anticorruption compliance program that includes policies.and procedures designed to detect and
deter violations of the FCPA and other applicable anticorruption laws. At a minimum, this
should include, but not be limited to, the following elements to the extent they are not already
part of General Cable’s existing internal controls, compliance codes, policies, and procedures:

High-Level Commitment

1. General Cable will ensure that its directors and senior management provide
strong, explicit, and visible support and commitment to its corporate policies against violations
of the FCPA and other applicable foreign law counterparts (collectively, the “anticorruption

laws”) and its compliance code.

B-1

 
Policies and Procedures

2. General Cable will develop and promulgate a clearly articulated and visible
corporate policy against violations of the anti-corruption laws, which policy shall be
memorialized in a written compliance code or codes.

3. General Cable will develop and promulgate compliance policies and procedures
designed to reduce the prospect of violations of the anticorruption laws and General Cable’s
compliance code, and General Cable will take appropriate measures to encourage and support the
observance of ethics and compliance policies and procedures against violation of the
anticorruption laws by personnel at all levels of General Cable. These anticorruption policies
and procedures shall apply to all directors, officers, and employees and, where necessary and
appropriate, outside parties acting on behalf of General Cable in a foreign jurisdiction, including
but not limited to, agents and intermediaries, consultants, representatives, distributors, teaming
partners, contractors and suppliers, consortia, and joint venture-partners (collectively, “agents
and business partners”). General Cable shall notify all employees that compliance with the
policies and procedures is the duty of individuals at all levels of General Cable. Such policies

and procedures shall address:

a) hiring;
b) gifts;
c) hospitality; entertainment, and expenses;
d) customer travel;
e) political contributions;
f) charitable donations and sponsorships;
g) facilitation payments; and
h) solicitation and extortion.
4, General Cable will ensure that it has a system of financial and accounting

procedures, including a system of internal controls, reasonably designed to ensure the

 
maintenance of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts. This system should be designed
to provide reasonable assurances that: |

a) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or
specific authorization;

b) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;

c) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management’s
general or specific authorization; and

d) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets
at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

Periodic Risk-Based Review

5. General Cable will develop these compliance policies and procedures on the basis
of a periodic risk assessment addressing the individual circumstances of General Cable, in
particular the foreign bribery risks facing General Cable, including, but not limited to, its
geographical organization, interactions with various types and levels of government officials,
industrial sectors of operation, involvement in joint venture arrangements, importance of licenses
and permits in General Cable’s operations, degree of governmental oversight and inspection, and
volume and importance of goods and personnel clearing through customs and immigration.

6. General Cable shall review its anticorruption compliance policies and procedures
no less than annually and update them as appropriate to ensure its continued effectiveness, taking
into account relevant developments in the field and evolving international and industry

standards.

B-3

 

 
Proper Oversight and Independence

7. General Cable will assign responsibility to one or more senior corporate
executives of General Cable for the implementation and oversight of General Cable’s
anticorruption compliance codes, policies, and procedures. Such corporate official(s) shall have
the authority to report directly to independent monitoring bodies, including internal audit,
General Cable’s Board of Directors, or any appropriate committee of the Board of Directors, and
shall have an adequate level of autonomy from management as well as sufficient resources and
authority to maintain such autonomy.

Training and Guidance

8. General Cable will implement mechanisms designed to ensure that its
anticorruption compliance code, policies, and procedures are effectively communicated to all
directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business
partners. These mechanisms shall include: (a) periodic training for all directors and efficers, all
employees in positions of leadership or trust, positions that require such training (e.g., internal
audit, sales, legal, compliance, finance), or positions that otherwise pose a corruption risk to
General Cable, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners, and (b)
corresponding certifications by all such directors, officers, employees, agents, and business
partners, certifying compliance with the training requirements.

9. General Cable will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for |
providing guidance and advice to directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and
appropriate, agents and business partners, on complying with General Cable’s anticorruption
compliance codes, policies, and procedures, including when they need advice on an urgent basis

or in any foreign jurisdiction in which General Cable operates.

 
Internal Reporting and Investigation

10. General Cable will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
internal and, where possible, confidential reporting by, and protection of, directors, officers,
employees, and, where appropriate, agents and business partners concerning violations of the
anticorruption laws or General Cable’s anticorruption compliance code, policies, and procedures.

11. General Cable will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective and
reliable process with sufficient resources for responding to, investigating, and documenting
allegations of violations of the anticorruption laws or General Cable’s anticorruption compliance
code, policies, and procedures.

Enforcement and Discipline

12. General Cable will implement mechanisms designed to effectively enforce its
compliance codes, policies, and procedures, including appropriately incentivizing compliance
and disciplining violations.

13. General Cable will institute appropriate disciplinary procedures to address, among
other things, violations of the anticorruption laws and General Cable’s anticorruption compliance
codes, policies, and procedures by General Cable’s directors, officers, and employees. Such
procedures should be applied consistently and fairly, regardless of the position held by, or
perceived importance of, the director, officer, or employee. General Cable shall implement
procedures to ensure that-where misconduct is discovered, reasonable steps are taken to remedy
the harm resulting from such misconduct, and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to
prevent further similar misconduct, including assessing the internal controls, compliance codes,
policies, and procedures and making modifications necessary to ensure that the overall

anticorruption compliance program is effective.

B-5
Third-Party Relationships

14. General Cable will institute appropriate risk-based due diligence and compliance
requirements pertaining to the retention and oversight of all agents and business partners,
including:

a) properly documented due diligence pertaining to the hiring and
appropriate and regular oversight of agents and business partners;

b) informing agents, distributors, and business partners of General Cable’s
commitment to abiding by anticorruption laws, and of General Cable’s anticorruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures; and

c) seeking a reciprocal commitment from agents and business partners.

15. Where necessary and appropriate, General Cable will include standard provisions
in agreements, contracts, and renewals thereof with all agents and business partners that are
reasonably calculated to prevent violations of the anticorruption laws, which-may, depending
upon the circumstances, include: (a) anticorruption representations and undertakings relating to
compliance with the anticorruption laws; (b) rights to conduct audits of the books and records of
the agent or business partner to ensure compliance with the foregoing; and (c) rights to terminate
an agent or business partner as a result of any breach of the anticorruption laws, General Cable’s
compliance codes, policies; or procedures, or therepresentations and undertakings related to~—~
such matters.

Mergers and Acquisitions

16. General Cable will develop and implement policies and procedures for mergers
and acquisitions requiring that General Cable conduct appropriate risk-based due diligence on
potential new business entities, including appropriate FCPA and anticorruption due diligence by
legal, accounting, and compliance personnel.

B-6

 
17. General Cable will ensure that General Cable’s compliance code, policies, and
procedures regarding the anticorruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to newly acquired
businesses or entities merged with General Cable and will promptly:

a) train the directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners
consistent with Paragraph 8 above on the anticorruption laws and General Cable’s compliance
code, policies, and procedures regarding anticorruption laws; and

b) where watranted, conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly acquired or
merged businesses as quickly as practicable.

Monitoring and Testing
18. General Cable will conduct periodic reviews and testing of its anticorruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures designed to evaluate and improve their effectiveness
in preventing and detecting violations of anticorruption laws and General Cable’s anticorruption
code, policies, and procedures, taking into account relevant developments in the field and

evolving international and industry standards.

 
ATTACHMENT C
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE REPORTING
General Cable Corporation (the “Company”) agrees that it will report to the Fraud
Section periodically, at no less than twelve-month intervals during a three-year term, regarding
remediation and implementation of the compliance program and internal controls, policies, and
procedures described in Attachment B. During this three-year period, the Company shall: (1)
conduct an initial review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare at least two (2)
follow-up reviews and reports, as described below:

a. By no later than one year from the date this Agreement is executed, the
Company shall submit to the Fraud Section a written report setting forth a complete description
of its remediation efforts to date, its proposals reasonably designed to improve the Company’s
internal controls, policies, and procedures for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws, and the proposed scope of the subsequent reviews. The report
shall be transmitted to Deputy Chief - FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S.
Department of Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, NW, Bond Building, Eleventh Floor,
Washington, DC 20530. The Company may extend the time period for issuance of the report
with prior written approval of the Fraud Section.

b. The Company shall undertake at least two follow-up reviews and reports,
incorporating the Fraud Section’s views on the Company’s prior reviews and reports, to further
monitor and assess whether the Company’s policies and procedures are reasonably designed to
detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws.

c. The first follow-up review and report shall be completed by no later than

one year after the initial report is submitted to the Fraud Section. The second follow-up review

 
and report shall be completed and delivered to the Fraud Section no later than thirty days before
the end of the Term.

d. The reports will likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and
competitive business information. Moreover, public disclosure of the reports could discourage
cooperation, impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the
objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the
contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except as otherwise agreed
to by the parties in writing, or except to the extent that the Fraud Section determines in its sole
discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Fraud Section’s discharge of its duties
and responsibilities or is otherwise required by law.

e. The Company may extend the time period for submission of any of the

follow-up reports with prior written approval of the Fraud Section.

 
