So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 1of15

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,
Plaintiff, Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-JSW
Vv.
[Propesed} Stipulated Final
LendUp Loans, LLC, Judgment and Order
Defendant.

 

 

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) commenced this action on
December 4, 2020, to obtain injunctive and monetary relief and civil penalties from LendUp
Loans, LLC. The Complaint alleges violations of the Military Lending Act, 10 U.S.C. § 987,
and its implementing regulation, 32 C.F.R. pt. 232, (collectively, the MLA), in connection
with Defendant’s extension of consumer credit.

The Bureau and Defendant agree to the entry of this Stipulated Final Judgment and
Order (Order), without adjudication of any issue of fact or law, to settle and resolve all
matters in dispute arising from the conduct alleged in the Complaint. ‘The Court therefore
makes the following findings of fact and conclusions of law and orders the following relief.

FINDINGS & CONCLUSIONS

1. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter of this action
under 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331 and 1345.

2. Venue in the Northern District of California is proper under 28 U.S.C.

§ 1391(b) and (c) and 12 U.S.C. § 5564(f).

3. Defendant neither admits nor denies the allegations in the Complaint, except as

specified in this Order. For purposes of this Order, Defendant admits the facts necessary to

establish the Court’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of this action

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 2 of 15

4. Defendant waives all rights to seek judicial review or otherwise challenge or
contest the validity of this Order and any claim it may have under the Equal Access to
Justice Act, 28 U.S.C. § 2412, concerning the prosecution of this action to the date of this
Order. Each Party agrees to bear tts own costs and expenses, including, without limitation,
attorneys’ fees.

5. Entry of this Order is in the public interest.

DEFINITIONS
6. The following definitions apply to this Order:

a. “Affected Consumer” means a Covered Borrower to whom Defendant
extended credit by way of a loan agreement that failed to comply with
one or more provisions of the MLA or contained one or more
provisions prohibited by the MLA.

b. “Board” means Defendant’s duly elected and acting Board of Directors.

C. “Covered Bortower” has the same meaning as that in 10 U.S.C.

§ 987(4)(1), (2) and 32 C.F.R. § 232.3(g).
d. “Defendant” means LendUp Loans, LLC, f/k/a Flurish, Inc., d/b/a

LendUp, and its successors and assigns.

e. “Effective Date” means the date on which this Order is entered on the
docket.
f. “Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the West Region

for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection, or his or her delegate.

g. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one Of more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Defendant based on substantially

the same facts as described in the Complaint.

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 3 of 15

h. “Void Loan” means the extension of credit to a Covered Borrower by
way of a loan agreement that failed to comply with one or more
provisions of the MLA or contained one or more provisions prohibited
by the MLA. Void Loan does not include the extension of credit to a
consumer where Defendant complied with all requirements of the
MLA’s safe-harbor provision, 32 C.F.R. § 232.5(b), and determined, by
using one or both of the methods set forth in 32 C.F.R. § 232.5(b)(2),

that the consumer was not a Covered Borrower.

CONDUCT PROVISIONS
I
Conduct Relief
IT IS ORDERED that:
7. Defendant and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys, and all

other persons in active concert or participation with them who have actual notice of this
Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, 1s permanently restrained from:
a. violating the Military Lending Act, 10 U.S.C. § 987, and its implementing
regulation, 32 C.F.R. pt. 232; and
b. collecting on, selling, or assigning any debts arising from Void Loans.
8. Defendant must, for all Affected Consumers:
a. complete a review of all information furnished to any consumer
reporting agency from October 3, 2016, through the Effective Date to
determine whether it requires correction or updating consistent with 15
U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(2);
b. use the results of the review required by subparagraph (a) to provide
corrected or updated information to the consumer reporting agencies
consistent with 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(2), unless the account status or

payment rating indicates that the account is current or paid off; and

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 4 of 15

C. for any information that Defendant, after its review, cannot determine
whether it requires correction or updating, request that the consumer
reporting agency delete the furnished information, unless the account
status or payment rating indicates that the account 1s current.

II
Compliance Plan
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

QO. Within 45 days of the Effective Date, Defendant must submit to the Regional
Director for review and determination of non-objection a comprehensive compliance plan
designed to ensure that Defendant’s extension of consumer credit complies with the Military
Lending Act, 10 U.S.C. § 987, and its implementing regulation, 32 C.F.R. pt. 232, and the
terms of this Order (Compliance Plan). The Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Order;

b. a plan for ensuring that correct credit-reporting information relating to
Void Loans with amounts delinquent or currently owed 1s furnished to
credit-reporting agencies and that inaccurate credit-reporting
information relating to such loans is corrected;

c. a plan for ensuring that Defendant does not collect, sell, or assign any
debts arising from Void Loans; and

d. specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps
described above.

10. The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of non-
objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Defendant to revise it. If the Regional Director
directs Defendant to revise the Compliance Plan, Defendant must revise and resubmit the
Compliance Plan to the Regional Director within 15 days.

11. After recetving notification that the Regional Director has made a

determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Defendant must implement and

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 5of15

adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Complance
Plan.
III
Role of the Board
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

12. The Board must review all submissions (including plans, reports, programs,
policies, and procedures) required by this Order before submission to the Bureau.

13. Although this Order requires Defendant to submit certain documents for
review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the Board will have the ultimate
responsibility for proper and sound management of Defendant and for ensuring that
Defendant complies with the Military Lending Act, 10 U.S.C. § 987, and its implementing
reculation, 32 C.F.R. pt. 232, and this Order.

14. In each instance that this Order requires the Board to ensure adherence to, or
perform certain obligations of Defendant, the Board must:

a. authorize whatever actions are necessary for Defendant to fully comply
with the Order;
b. require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of
compliance obligations; and
c. require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any material
non-compliance with any failures to comply with Board directives
related to this Section.
MONETARY PROVISIONS
IV
Order to Pay Redress
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
15. A judgment for monetary relief 1s entered in favor of the Bureau and against

Defendant in the amount of $300,000.00.

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 6 of 15

16. Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Defendant must reserve or deposit into a
segregated deposit account an amount not less than $50,000.00, for the purpose of providing
redress to Affected Consumers, to the extent such amounts have not already been paid to
Affected Consumers, as required by this Section. For redress that Defendant has made to
Affected Consumers before the Effective Date of this Order, Defendant must provide
appropriate documentation of such redress, as required by Paragraph 18.

17. Within 45 days of the Effective Date, Defendant must submit to the Regional
Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive written plan for providing redress
consistent with this Order (Redress Plan). The Regional Director will have the discretion to
make a determination of non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct Defendant to revise it.
If the Regional Director directs Defendant to revise the Redress Plan, Defendant must
revise and resubmit the Redress Plan to the Regional Director within 15 days. After receiving
notification that the Regional Director has made a determination of non-objection to the
Redress Plan, Defendant must implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations,
deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Redress Plan.

18. The Redress Plan must:

a. for each Void Loan, state (1) the total amount of interest and fees paid
by the Affected Consumer; (2) an itemization of any redress paid to
Affected Consumers by Defendant before the Effective Date of this
Order, broken down into interest, fees, and any other item, and the form
(1.e., ACH, check, rebate) in which that redress was provided; and (3) the
redress remaining to be provided, equal to the amount in (1) minus the
amount in (2) (Remaining Redress);

b. provide deadlines for sending written notification to all Affected
Consumers (Redress Notice) and attach as an exhibit a proposed

Redress Notice, which must:

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 7 of 15

iv.

Vv.

describe the nature of the administrative action and that redress is
being made in accordance with the terms of this Order;

describe any refunds or rebates previously provided by Defendant
in connection with violations described in the Order;

describe all nonmonetary remediation, including corrections to
credit reporting and cessation of collections;

state in detail how any redress amount was calculated, including
an itemization of all interest, fees, and any reductions for refunds

or rebates already provided; and

state where Affected Consumers may direct any questions;

c. set forth the process for transmitting the Redress Notice and distributing

the Remaining Redress to each Affected Consumer, including the following:

1.

iv.

Defendant must issue redress by ACH to an Affected Consumet’s
bank account where possible;

where redress by ACH 1s not possible, Defendant must issue
redress by mailing a bank check and the Redress Notice;

where an Affected Consumer has consented to receiving
communications from Defendant electronically, Defendant may
provide the Redress Notice electronically;

where an Affected Consumer has not consented to recetving
communications from Defendant electronically, Defendant must
provide the Redress Notice by mail;

transmission of a Redress Notice must not include any materials
other than the approved Redress Notice and, if applicable, the
bank check;

where Defendant must mail a bank check or the Redress Notice,

Defendant must use U.S. Postal Service first-class mail, address-

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order

Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 8 of 15

correction service requested, making reasonable attempts to
obtain the Affected Consumer’s current address through the
National Change of Address System before sending the bank
check or Redress Notice to the Affected Consumer’s last known
address as maintained by Defendant’s records; and
d. include processes for handling any bank check that remains unnegotiated
after 180 days or if Defendant 1s unable to locate an Affected Consumer
after taking the steps required in this Section, including attempting to
contact the Affected Consumer by email and phone.

19. If, after completing the final step outlined in the Redress Plan, the total redress
provided to Affected Consumers is less than $300,000.00, Defendant must pay the
difference to the Bureau within 30 days by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s
agent, according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

20. The Bureau may use these remaining funds to pay additional restitution to
Affected Consumers. If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that redress to
consumers is wholly or partially impracticable or if funds remain after redress is completed,
the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the United States Treasury as disgorgement.
Defendant will have no right to challenge any actions that the Bureau or its representatives
may take under this paragraph.

21. Payment of redress to any Affected Consumer under this Order may not be
conditioned on that Affected Consumer waiving any right.

V
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

22. Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the violations
of law alleged in the Complaint and taking into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3),
Defendant must pay a civil money penalty of $950,000 to the Bureau.

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document 11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 9 of 15

23. Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Defendant must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in compliance with the
Bureau’s wiring instructions.

24. The civil money penalty paid under this Order will be deposited in the Civil
Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

25. Defendant must treat the ctvil money penalty paid under this Order as a
penalty paid to the government for all purposes. Regardless of how the Bureau ultimately
uses those funds, Defendant may not:

a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Order; or

b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reumbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this
Order.

VI
Additional Monetary Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

26. In the event of any default on Defendant’s obligations to make payment under
this Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as amended, will accrue on any
outstanding amounts not paid from the date of default to the date of payment, and will
immediately become due and payable.

27. Defendant relinquishes all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid under
this Order to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be returned to
Defendant.

28. The facts alleged in the Complaint will be taken as true and be given collateral
estoppel effect, without further proof, in any proceeding based on the entry of the Order, or

in any subsequent civil litigation by or on behalf of the Bureau, including in a proceeding to

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 10 of 15

enforce its rights to any payment or monetary judgment under this Order, such as a
nondischargeability complaint in any bankruptcy case.

29. The facts alleged in the Complaint establish all elements necessary to sustain an
action by the Bureau under § 523(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(2)(A),
and for such purposes this Order will have collateral estoppel effect against each Defendant,
even in such Defendant’s capacity as debtor-in-possession.

30. Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Defendant, unless it already has done so, must furnish
to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be used for purposes of
collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of this Order.

31. Within 30 days of the entry of a final yudgment, order, or settlement in a
Related Consumer Action, Defendant must notify the Regional Director of the final
judgement, order, or settlement in writing. That notification must indicate the amount of
redress, if any, that Defendant paid or is required to pay to consumers and describe the
consumers or classes of consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the ctvil money penalty in any Related Consumer Action,
Defendant may not argue that Defendant ts entitled to, nor may Defendant benefit by, any
offset or reduction of any monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action
because of the civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related Consumer Action
offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory monetary remedies tmposed
against Defendant based on the civil money penalty paid in this action or based on any
payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund, Defendant must, within 30
days after entry of a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau and pay
the amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will not be
considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the amount of the civil

money penalty imposed in this action.

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 11 of 15

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
VII
Reporting Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

32. Defendant must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Order, including but not limited to, a dissolution,
assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would result in the emergence of a successor
company; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any
acts or practices subject to this Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding
by or against Defendant; or a change in Defendant’s name or address. Defendant must
provide this notice at least 30 days before the development or as soon as practicable after the
learning about the development, whichever is sooner.

33. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Defendant must:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal
addresses as points of contact that the Bureau may use to communicate
with Defendant;

b. identify all businesses for which Defendant 1s the majority owner, or that
Defendant directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names, telephone
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; and

c. describe the activities of each such business, including the products and
services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales.

34. Defendant must report any change in the information required to be submitted
under Paragraph 33 at least 30 days before the change or as soon as practicable after learning
about the change, whichever is sooner.

35. Within 90 days of the Effecttve Date, and again one year after recetving notice

of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Defendant must submit to the Regional Director

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 12 of 15

an accurate written compliance progress report sworn to under penalty of perjury
(Compliance Report) that has been approved by the Board, which, at a minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes 1n detail the manner and form in which Defendant has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of this Order;

b. describes 1n detail the manner and form in which Defendant has
complied with the Redress Plan and Compliance Plan; and

c. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section
VIII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

VIII
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

36. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Defendant must submit to the Regional
Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Order, sworn under penalty of perjury.

37. Within 30 days of the Effecttve Date, Defendant must deliver a copy of this
Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well as to any managers,
employees, service providers, or other agents and representatives who have responsibilities
related to the subject matter of the Order.

38. For 5years from the Effective Date, Defendant must deliver a copy of this
Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure referred to in Section
VII, any future board members and executive officers, as well as to any managers,
employees, Service Providers, or other agents and representatives who will have
responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Order before they assume their
responsibilities.

39. Defendant must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of

a copy of this Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures comply with the requirements of

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 13 of 15

the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 7001-7006, within 30 days of delivery, from all persons
receiving a copy of this Order under this Section.
40. Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Defendant must provide the Bureau with
a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Order was delivered through that date under
Paragraphs 37 and 38 and a copy of all signed and dated statements acknowledging of
receipt of this Order under Paragraph 39.
IX
Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
41. Defendant must create and retain, for at least 5 years from the Effective Date,
the following business records:
a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Order, including all submissions to the
Bureau;
b. all documents and records pertaining to the Redress Program, described
in Section IV above; and
C. all consumer complaints and refund requests relating to the MLA
(whether recetved directly or indirectly, such as through a third party),
and any responses to those complaints or requests.
42. Defendant must make the materials identified in Paragraph 41 available to the
Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.
X
Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
43. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Defendant must provide all

submissions, requests, communications, or other documents relating to this Order in writing,

with the subject line, “CF PB v. LendUp Loans, LLC, Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-JSW,” and send

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 14 of 15

them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by
email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Regional Director, Bureau West Region

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

301 Howard Street, Suite 1200
San Francisco, CA 94105

44. The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-material
requirements of this Order (¢.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) if he or she determines good cause justifies the modification. Any such
modification by the Regional Director must be in writing.

XI
Cooperation with the Bureau
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

45. Defendant must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity and
location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected Consumer. Defendant
must provide such information in its or its agents’ possession or control within 14 days of
receiving a written request from the Bureau.

XII
Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

46. Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Defendant
must submit additional compliance reports or other requested information, which must be
sworn under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony; or produce documents.

47. Defendant must permit Bureau representatives to interview any employee or
other person affiliated with Defendant who has agreed to such an interview regarding: (a)
this matter; (b) anything related to or associated with the conduct described the Complaint;

or (c) compliance with this Order. The person interviewed may have counsel present.

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
So AH NY HDB OO FBP WW NO

NNO NNO NY NY NY NY N N KF KF HF KF KF KF OP OF OS eR
oO SI DWN NH FSP WO NYO KF DOD HO FN DW NH BP WO NYO KF CO

 

 

Case 4:20-cv-08583-JSW Document11 Filed 01/20/21 Page 15 of 15

48. Nothing in this Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of compulsory process,
under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6.
XII
Retention of Jurisdiction
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
49. The Court will retain jurisdiction of this matter for the purpose of enforcing

this Order.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

 

DATED this 29" day of _January

 

 

United Sfates District Court/Magistrate Judge

Stipulated Final Judgment and Order
Case No. 4:20-cv-08583-]SW

 
