Case 1:19-cv-O1L153-WiESCY BocumentS9S Filed O4/O7/21 Page lof is

at

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO

 

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION,

Plaintiff,
Case No.: 19-cv-1153 WJ/SCY

Vv.

DOUGLAS LIEN, individually and d/b/a
WESTEND INVESTMENTS,

Defendants.

a a ae a ae ae ae ae ae ae a

 

CONSENT ORDER FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION, CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY
AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF AGAINST DEFENDANT DOUGLAS LIEN,
individually and d/b/a WESTEND INVESTMENTS

 

L INTRODUCTION

On December 9, 2019, Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(“Commission” or “CFTC”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Douglas Lien, individually and
d/b/a Westend Investments (“Lien”) seeking injunctive and other equitable relief, as well as the
imposition of civil penalties, for violations of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C.
§§ 1-26 (2018), and the Commission’s Regulations (“Regulations”) promulgated thereunder,

17 C.F.R. pts. 1-190 (2020). The Court entered a Consent Order for Preliminary Injunction and

Other Ancillary Relief against Defendant Lien on December 11, 2019.

I. CONSENTS AND AGREEMENTS

To effect settlement of all charges alleged in the Complaint against Defendant Lien

without a trial on the merits or any further judicial proceedings, Defendant Lien:
Case 1:19-cv-O1153-WESCY Bocurnent SS Filed O4/07/21 Pace 2 of 18

1. Consents to the entry of this Consent Order for Permanent Injunction, Civil
Monetary Penalty, and Other Equitable Relief Against Defendant Douglas Lien, individually and
d/b/a Westend Investments (“Consent Order’);

2. Affirms that he has read and agreed to this Consent Order voluntarily, and that no
promise, other than as specifically contained herein, or threat, has been made by the Commission
or any member, officer, agent, or representative thereof, or by any other person, to induce this
Consent Order;

3. Acknowledges service of the summons and Complaint;

4. Admits the jurisdiction of this Court over him and the subject matter of this action
pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2018);

5. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission over the conduct and transactions at
issue in this action pursuant to the Act;

6. Admits that venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(e);

7. Waives:

i. Any and all claims that he may possess under the Equal Access to Justice
Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2018) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2018), and/or the rules
promulgated by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2020), relating to, or arising from, this
action;

il. Any and all claims that he may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. I,
§§ 201-253, 110 Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C.
§ 2412 and in scattered sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or
arising from, this action;

iil. Any claim of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this action or
the entry in this action of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or
any other relief, including this Consent Order; and

iv. Any and all rights of appeal from this action;
Case 1:29-cv-O1153-WESCY BocumentS9 Filed O4/o7/21 Page 3 of 18
8. Agrees that he will not oppose enforcement of this Consent Order on the ground,

if any exists, that it fails to comply with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
hereby waives any objection based thereon;

9. Agrees that neither he nor any of his agents or employees under his authority or
control shall take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
allegation in the Complaint or the Findings of Fact or Conclusions of Law in this Consent Order,
or creating or tending to create the impression that the Complaint and/or this Consent Order is
without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect his:

(a) testimonial obligations, or (b) nght to take legal positions in other proceedings to which the
Commission 1s not a party. Defendant shall comply with this agreement, and shall undertake all
steps necessary to ensure that all of his agents and/or employees under his authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement;

10. Admits to all of the findings made in this Consent Order and all of the allegations
in the Complaint;

11. Consents to the use of the findings and conclusions in this Consent Order in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party or claimant, and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given
preclusive effect therein, without further proof;

12. Does not consent, however, to the use of this Consent Order, or the findings and
conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to
which the Commission is a party, other than a: statutory disqualification proceeding; proceeding

in bankruptcy, or receivership; or proceeding to enforce the terms of this Consent Order;
Case 1:19-cv-O1L153-WiSCY BocumentS9S Filed 04/07/21 Page 4 oF 18

at

13. Agrees to provide immediate notice to this Court and the Commission by certified
mail, in the manner required by paragraph 60 of Part V. of this Consent Order, of any bankruptcy
proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or against him, whether inside or outside the United States; and

14. _— Agrees that no provision of this Consent Order shall in any way limit or impair
the ability of any other person or entity to seek any legal or equitable remedy against him in any

other proceeding.

If. FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

The Court, being fully advised in the premises, finds that there is good cause for the entry
of this Consent Order and that there is no just reason for delay. The Court therefore directs the
entry of the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, permanent injunction and equitable
relief pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2018), as set forth herein.

THE COURT HEREBY FINDS:

A. Findings of Fact
The Parties to this Consent Order

15. — Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent federal
regulatory agency that is charged by Congress with administering and enforcing the Act and the
Regulations.

16. Defendant Douglas Lien is 79 years old, resides in Santa Fe, New Mexico and has
never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

Lien’s Long-Running Fraud

17. Lien maintains a futures trading account in his own name at a futures commission
merchant (“FCM A”) registered with the CFTC. Lien originally opened his trading account at a

different registered FCM (“FCM B”) in 2001, and Lien’s original account opening paperwork
Case 1:19-cv-O1L1153-WiESCY ®BocumentS9 Filed O4fo7/e

we
fend
Oo
+9)
a
on
Oo
Sp,
fet
63

includes a November 25, 2001, letter to FCM B signed by Lien that states, “this is to confirm
that all the funds in my account are my own and will be traded only at my discretion.” Lien’s
account was ultimately acquired by FCM A in 2012, and his personal trading account has
remained open there since.

18. Starting in at least August 2000, Lien solicited and accepted funds from friends
and acquaintances for the purpose of trading their funds in commodity futures contracts,
primarily U.S. Treasury bond futures.

19. Lien did not disclose to clients or prospective clients that he was not registered
with the CFTC as an FCM or any other capacity.

20. Lien typically entered into an account agreement with each new client on
letterhead stating “Douglas Lien” or “Douglas Lien / westend investments.” A typical agreement
stated that the client’s funds would be traded, that Lien would reinvest monthly income by
adding it to client equity, and that Lien’s fee would be 15% of net trading profits each month,
calculated as gross trading profits minus broker commissions. No provision in the agreement
gave Lien the right to receive any other fees or funds from the client’s account.

21. Until approximately 2010 or 2011, Lien instructed clients to wire funds to a bank
account in the name of “Douglas Lien / westend investments” at a bank in Santa Fe, New
Mexico. After that, and during the Relevant Period, Lien instructed clients to wire funds to an
account in Lien’s name at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ending in 8968.

22. Lien socialized with his clients over the years, even inviting some of his clients to
vacation with him and his wife on a private family-owned island near Martha’s Vineyard, and

many of Lien’s clients viewed him as a friend.
Case 1:29-cv-O1153-WESCY DBocumentS9 Filed O4/O7/21 Page 6 of 19
23. For years, including during the Relevant Period, Lien led his clients to believe

that he profitably traded their funds, including by issuing clients periodic account statements and
annual tax forms showing profits.

24. Lien typically emailed or hand delivered to his clients account statements on a
monthly or quarterly basis. Client account statements were usually sent as Word documents on
letterhead stating “Douglas Lien.” The statements were individualized and reflected account
balances, profits, deposits or withdrawals, Lien’s 15% management fees, and sometimes
corrections or adjustments to prior statements. Lien typically included market commentary in his
statements, and he sometimes added personal notes to clients about health, family, vacation
plans, and other topics.

25. Lien also emailed or hand delivered to his clients annual tax forms, primarily
handwritten Form 1099s, showing profits of as much as hundreds of thousands of dollars. The
tax forms typically listed as the payer name “Douglas H. Lien,” and some of them included as a
descriptor “Regulated Futures Contracts.” As with the periodic account statements, each tax
form was individualized, reporting only a single client’s profits.

26. For example, in March 2016, Lien emailed Client A an account statement for the
month of January 2016. The statement reported a month-end account balance of $2,502,609,
monthly “Trade/Investment” profits of $22,797, and Lien’s 15% management fee on those
profits, totaling $3,552. Lien’s commentary in the statement included a congratulatory statement
to Client A for exceeding a $2.5 million balance: “You finally made it. (I think I should have a
silver — not Gold — pin made for you that signifies that you are now a member of a very select
club.).” The following year, Lien emailed Client A a handwritten Form 1099 that reported his

2016 profit as $235,615 and included the description “Regulated Futures Contracts.”
Case 1:19-cv-O1L1153-WiESCY ®BocumentS9 Filed O4fo7/e

we
fend
“O
99]
a
wad
Oo
Sp,
fet
63

27. Lien accepted $14,275,632 in funds from clients from August 17, 2000 to the
present and he also reported more than $1.7 million in profits on tax forms he issued to clients
during the period from 2014 to 2018.

28. However, the account statements and tax forms that Lien sent his clients did not
reflect Lien’s actual futures trading results, but instead showed fake trading profits and
management fees that Lien charged on those fake profits.

29. Lien maintained a trading account balance of approximately $25,000 from at least
January 31, 2013, shortly after FCM A acquired Lien’s account, until March 2019. During the
Relevant Period, Lien made no deposits into his trading account and placed only three trades:
two trades in U.S. Treasury bond futures in 2017 and one trade in mini-corn futures in 2019,
resulting in a combined net loss of approximately $200. In March 2019, Lien withdrew $23,000
of his account balance with instructions to wire the funds to a bank account in his name at
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ending in 8968. Lien’s current account balance at FCM A is
approximately $1,880.

30. From at least January 31, 2013 to the present, Lien maintained no other futures
trading accounts in his name at FCM A or any other FCM registered with the CFTC, nor did he
maintain any futures trading accounts in the name of “Westend Investments” at any FCM
registered with the CFTC.

31. Throughout 2019, several of Lien’s clients requested the return of all or a portion
of their funds. While Lien has returned some of the funds requested, he failed to disclose to
clients that on multiple occasions, he paid clients using funds he received from other clients, in

the manner of a Ponzi scheme, or using funds he obtained from equity lines of credit, and not
Case 1:19-cv-O1153-WESCY DBocurnent SS Filed O4/07/21 Pace 6 of 18

using funds from clients’ own account balances or trading profits. He has otherwise strung
clients along with false excuses or simply ignored them.

32. For example, in 2019, Clients A and B requested funds from their accounts. Lien
paid them a portion of the funds they requested in April 2019 using funds obtained from another
client, in the manner of a Ponzi scheme, without disclosing the source of those funds. As of mid-
June, Clients A and B had still not received the remainder of the funds they had requested. At
various points, including on approximately April 24, May 25, and June 18, 2019, Lien sent
Client A emails in which he blamed his delay in returning their funds in part on a change in
brokers, claiming that his old broker had left for another brokerage job and that his new broker
did not understand instructions delivered over the phone. These representations were false. No
FCM A broker managed funds for Lien or his clients from at least 2018 through the present.

33. Lien also told at least one of his clients that, prior to having heart surgery in
August 2018, he placed client funds under management with an FCM A broker, who had placed
the funds in long-term investments that Lien could not access without incurring penalties. These
representations also were false. Neither Lien’s nor his clients’ funds are, or were, locked up in
long-term investments at FCM A.

34. From August 17, 2000 to the present, Lien misappropriated $5,195,679 in client
funds, including client funds he used to pay other clients and “management fees” that he charged
based on fake trading profits. Of that sum, Lien kept $3,517,373 for himself as these

management fees.
Case 1:19-cv-OL1153-WiE-SCY BocumentS9 Filed 04/0

nnd

fel Page Sofie

B. Conclusions of Law
Jurisdiction and Venue

35. This Court possesses jurisdiction over this action pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331
(2018) (codifying federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. § 1345 (2018) (providing that U.S.
district courts have original jurisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by
any agency expressly authorized to sue by Act of Congress). Section 6c(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 13a-1(a) (2018), provides that the Commission may bring actions for injunctive relief or to
enforce compliance with the Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder in the proper district
court of the United States whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has
engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a violation of any
provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder.

36. Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(e), because the
Defendant resides in this jurisdiction and the acts and practices in violation of the Act occurred
within this District.

Fraud by Misappropriation, Misrepresentations, Material Omission, and False
Statements

37. Section 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C) (2018), in relevant
part, makes it unlawful for any person, in or in connection with any order to make, or the making
of, any contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce or for future delivery that is
made, or to be made, on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market, for or on behalf
of any other person: (A) to cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud such other person;
(B) willfully to make or cause to be made to such other person any false report or statement, or
willfully to enter or cause to be entered for such other person any false record; or (C) willfully to

deceive or attempt to deceive such other person by any means whatsoever in regard to any order
Case D1S-cv-OL LSSAVESCY Document5o Filed Q4/07/21 Page 10 of 19

or contract or the disposition or execution of any order or contract, or in regard to any act of
agency performed, with respect to any order or contract for such other person.

38. Lien violated 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C) from August 17, 2000 to the present by,
among other things: making misrepresentations to his clients about trading their funds in futures
contracts, the location of their funds, and why he did not return their funds as requested; failing
to disclose to clients that he used client funds to pay other clients, in the manner of a Ponzi
scheme, and was not registered with the CFTC as an FCM; misappropriating client funds; and
issuing false periodic account statements and annual tax forms to clients.

39. Each act of misrepresenting and omitting material information and making false
statements to others, including, but not limited to, those specifically alleged herein, constitutes a
separate and distinct violation of 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C).

Failure to Register as an FCM

AO. Section 1a(28) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(28) (2018), in relevant part, defines an
FCM as “an individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust” that is “engaged in
soliciting or accepting orders for . . . the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery”
and in connection therewith accepts any money, securities, or property (or extends credit in lieu
thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades or contracts that result or may result
therefrom.”

Al. Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1) (2018), in relevant part, makes it
unlawful for any person to be an FCM unless such person 1s currently registered with the CFTC

as an FCM.

10
Case D1S-cv-OL LSSAVSCY Document53 Filed Q4/O7/21 Page li of 19

42. Lien violated 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1) by accepting money from clients to margin,
guarantee, or secure commodity futures trades without being registered with the CFTC as an
FCM.

43. Each act of accepting money to margin, guarantee, or secure commodity futures
trades without being registered with the CFTC as an FCM, including, but not limited to, those

specifically alleged herein, constitutes a separate and distinct violation of 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1).

IV. PERMANENT INJUNCTION

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

44. Based upon and in connection with the foregoing conduct, pursuant to Section 6c
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2018), Lien is permanently restrained, enjoined and prohibited
from directly or indirectly:

a. Cheating or defrauding, or attempting to cheat or defraud, or willfully deceiving or
attempting to deceive other persons in or in connection with any order to make, or the
making of, any contract of sale of any commodity for future delivery that is made, or
to be made, on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market, for or on behalf
of any other person, in violation of Section 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§ 6b(a)(1(A)-(C) (2018);

b. Accepting money to margin, guarantee, or secure commodity futures trades without
being registered with the CFTC as an FCM, in violation of Section 4d(a)(1) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(1) (2018).

45. Lien is also permanently restrained, enjoined and prohibited from directly or

indirectly:

11
Case D1S-cv-OL LS3AVSCY Document5o Filed Q4/07/21 Page 12 of 19

Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined
in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2018);

Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (2020)) for his own personal accounts or
for any account in which he has a direct or indirect interest;

Having any commodity interests traded on his behalf:

Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving commodity
interests;

Soliciting, receiving or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission, except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2020); and/or
Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R.

§ 3.1(a) (2020)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that
term is defined in 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)), registered, exempted from registration or

required to be registered with the Commission except as provided for in 17 C.F.R.

§ 4.14(a)(9).

12
Case E1S-cv-OL LS3AVESCY Document5o Filed Q4/07/21 Page 13 of 19

V. RESTITUTION AND CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY
A. Restitution

46. Defendant shall pay restitution in the amount of Five Million One Hundred
Ninety-Five Thousand Six Hundred Seventy-Nine Dollars ($5,195,679) (“Restitution
Obligation”). If the Restitution Obligation is not paid immediately, post-judgment interest shall
accrue on the Restitution Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Consent Order and
shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Consent
Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2018).

47. To effect payment of the Restitution Obligation and the distribution of any
restitution payments to Defendant’s clients, the Court appoints the National Futures Association
(“NFA”) as Monitor (“Monitor”). The Monitor shall receive restitution payments from
Defendant and make distributions as set forth below. Because the Monitor is acting as an officer
of this Court in performing these services, the NFA shall not be liable for any action or inaction
arising from NFA’s appointment as Monitor, other than actions involving fraud.

48. Defendant shall make Restitution Obligation payments, and any post-judgment
interest payments, under this Consent Order to the Monitor in the name “Lien—Settlement
Fund” and shall send such payments by electronic funds transfer, or by U.S. postal money order,
certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order, to the Office of Administration,
National Futures Association, 300 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60606 under
cover letter that identifies the paying Defendant and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. Defendant shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of
payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three

Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581 and to Deputy Director,

13
Case D1S-cv-OL LS3AVSCY Document53 Filed Q4/O7/21 Page 14 of 19

Robert T. Howell, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Division of Enforcement, 525 W.
Monroe St., Suite 1100, Chicago, IL 60661.

49. The Monitor shall oversee the Restitution Obligation and shall have the discretion
to determine the manner of distribution of such funds in an equitable fashion to Defendant’s
clients identified by the Commission or may defer distribution until such time as the Monitor
deems appropriate. In the event that the amount of Restitution Obligation payments to the
Monitor are of a de minimis nature such that the Monitor determines that the administrative cost
of making a distribution to eligible clients is impractical, the Monitor may, in its discretion, treat
such restitution payments as civil monetary penalty payments, which the Monitor shall forward
to the Commission following the instructions for civil monetary penalty payments set forth in
Part B. below.

50. Lien shall cooperate with the Monitor as appropriate to provide such information
as the Monitor deems necessary and appropriate to identify Defendant’s clients to whom the
Monitor, in its sole discretion, may determine to include in any plan for distribution of any
Restitution Obligation payments. Lien shall execute any documents necessary to release funds
that he has in any repository, bank, investment or other financial institution, wherever located, in
order to make partial or total payment toward the Restitution Obligation.

51. The Monitor shall provide the Commission at the beginning of each calendar year
with a report detailing the disbursement of funds to Defendant’s clients during the previous year.
The Monitor shall transmit this report under a cover letter that identifies the name and docket
number of this proceeding to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading

Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

14
Case D1S-cv-OL LS3AVESCY Document5a Filed Q4/07/21 Page 15 of 19

52. The amounts payable to each client shall not limit the ability of any client from
proving that a greater amount is owed from Defendant or any other person or entity, and nothing
herein shall be construed in any way to limit or abridge the rights of any client that exist under
state or common law.

53. Each client of Defendant who suffered a loss is explicitly made an intended third-
party beneficiary of this Consent Order and may seek to enforce compliance with this Consent
Order to obtain satisfaction of any portion of the restitution that has not been paid by Defendant.

54. To the extent that any funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of
Defendant’s Restitution Obligation, such funds shall be transferred to the Monitor for
disbursement in accordance with the procedures set forth above.

B. Civil Monetary Penalty

55. Defendant shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of Five Million One
Hundred Ninety-Five Thousand Six Hundred Seventy-Nine Dollars ($5,195,679) (“CMP
Obligation”). If the CMP Obligation is not paid immediately, then post-judgment interest shall
accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Consent Order and shall be
determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Consent Order
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961.

56. | Defendant shall pay his CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest, by
electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank
money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment
shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address

below:

15
Case D1S-cv-OL LSSAVSCY Document5o Filed Q4/07/21 Page 16 of 19

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax

9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov
If payment by electronic funds transfer is chosen, Defendant shall contact Marie Thorne or her
successor at the address above to receive payment instructions and shall fully comply with those
instructions. Defendant shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that
identifies Defendant and the name and docket number of this proceeding. Defendant shall
simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial
Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street,
NW, Washington, D.C. 20581 and to Deputy Director, Robert T. Howell, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Division of Enforcement, 525 W. Monroe St., Suite 1100, Chicago, IL
60661.

C. Provisions Related to Monetary Sanctions

57. Partial Satisfaction: Acceptance by the Commission or the Monitor of any partial
payment of Defendant’s Restitution Obligation, or CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver
of his obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Consent Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

58. Asset Freeze: On December 11, 2019, the court entered a Consent Order of
preliminary injunction that included an asset freeze order prohibiting the transfer, removal,

dissipation and disposal of Defendant’s assets (“Asset Freeze Order’). Funds frozen pursuant to

16
Case D1S-cv-OL LS3AVSCY Document5o Filed Q4/07/21 Page 1? of 19

the Asset Freeze shall be released to the Monitor to help satisfy the Restitution Obligation and

the court hereby lifts the Asset Freeze Order.

VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

59. Notice: All notices required to be given by any provision in this Consent Order
shall be sent certified mail, return receipt requested, as follows:
Notice to Commission:

Robert T. Howell

Deputy Director

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Division of Enforcement

525 W. Monroe Street

Suite 1100

Chicago, IL 60661
Notice to Defendant:

Douglas Lien, individually and d/b/a Westend Investments,

37 Camino Tetzcoco

Santa Fe, New Mexico 87508
All such notices to the Commission shall reference the name and docket number of this action.

60. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Defendant satisfies in full his
Restitution Obligation, and CMP Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Defendant shall
provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to his telephone
number and mailing address within ten calendar days of the change.

61. Entire Agreement and Amendments: This Consent Order incorporates all of the
terms and conditions of the settlement among the parties hereto to date. Nothing shall serve to

amend or modify this Consent Order in any respect whatsoever, unless: (a) reduced to writing;

(b) signed by all parties hereto; and (c) approved by order of this Court.

17
Case D1S-cv-OL LS3AVSCY Document5o Filed Q4/O7/21 Page 18 of 19

62. _Invalidation: If any provision of this Consent Order or if the application of any
provision or circumstance is held invalid, then the remainder of this Consent Order and the
application of the provision to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected by the
holding.

63. Waiver: The failure of any party to this Consent Order or of any client at any
time to require performance of any provision of this Consent Order shall in no manner affect the
right of the party or client at a later time to enforce the same or any other provision of this
Consent Order. No waiver in one or more instances of the breach of any provision contained in
this Consent Order shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of such
breach or waiver of the breach of any other provision of this Consent Order.

64. Waiver of Service, and Acknowledgement: Defendant waives service of this
Consent Order and agrees that entry of this Consent Order by the Court and filing with the Clerk
of the Court will constitute notice to the Defendant of its terms and conditions. Defendant
further agrees to provide counsel for the Commission, within thirty days after this Consent Order
is filed with the Clerk of Court, with an affidavit or declaration stating that Defendant has
received and read a copy of this Consent Order.

65. Injunctive and Equitable Relief Provisions: The injunctive and equitable relief
provisions of this Consent Order shall be binding upon Defendant, upon any person under their
authority or control, and upon any person who receives actual notice of this Consent Order, by
personal service, e-mail, facsimile or otherwise insofar as he or she 1s acting in active concert or
participation with Defendant.

66. | Counterparts and Facsimile Execution: This Consent Order may be executed in

two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall

18
Case 1:19-cv-01153-WI-SCY Document 59 Filed 04/07/21 Page 19 of 19

become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto
and delivered (by facsimile, e-mail, or otherwise) to the other party, it being understood that all
parties need not sign the same counterpart, Any counterpart or other signature to this Consent,
Order that is delivered by any means shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and
valid execution and delivery by such party of this Consent Order.

67. Defendant understands that the terms of the Consent Order are enforceable, and
that, in any such proceedings he may not challenge the validity of this Consent Order.

68 Agreements and Undertakings: Defendant shall comply with all of the
undertakings and agreements set forth in this Consent Order
There being no just reason for delay, the Clerk of the Court is hereby ordered to enter this
Consent Order for Permanent injunction, Civil Monetary Penalty and Other Equitable Relief

Against Defendant Dougias Lien, individually and afb /a Westend Investments, forthwith and
without further notice

IT IS SO ORDERED.

‘WILLIAM P. JOHNSO]
CHIEF UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE

 

19
