Case 4:20-cv-03185 Document1 Filed on 09/11/20 in TXSD Page 1 of 13

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT _ United States Courts
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEX ¢&the™ District of Texas
HOUSTON DIVISION FILED
09/11/2020

 

COMMISSION, TRADING David J. Bradley, Clerk of Court
Plaintiff, Civil Action No.
v. COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE

RELIEF, RESTITUTION, CIVIL
MONETARY PENALTIES, AND OTHER
EQUITABLE RELIEF UNDER THE
COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT

MAYCO ALEXIS MALDONADO
GARCIA, CESAR CASTANEDA,
JOEL CASTANEDA GARCIA, and
RODRIGO JOSE CASTRO MOLINA,
jointly d/b/a GLOBAL TRADING
CLUB,

Defendants.

Nee’ ee’ ee ee” SS” SN”

 

Plaintiff, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC’), an
independent federal agency, by and through its attorneys, alleges as follows:

I SUMMARY

1. From at least August 2016 through October 2017 (the “Relevant Period’), Mayco
Alexis Maldonado Garcia (“Maldonado”), Cesar Castaneda (“Cesar Castaneda’), Joel Castaneda
Garcia (“Joel Castaneda’), and Rodrigo Jose Castro Molina (“Castro’’), jointly d/b/a Global
Trading Club (collectively, “Defendants’’), operated a fraudulent scheme involving the
solicitation of customer funds which were to be used to speculate in price movements of Bitcoin,
a digital asset. Specifically, Defendants and others falsely represented to actual and potential
customers that their business, named Global Trading Club (“GTC”), employed “master traders”
who had years of experience trading “crypto currency,” and used “cutting edge trading robots” to
trade Bitcoin for customers “24 hours a day, 7 days a week.” Defendants further falsely

represented that customer earnings would increase based on the amount of their deposit, and that

1
PAPOA GA TWEED Dann 2 Af 12
MUSoin TXRSD Page Sof is

} Le '

rane,

GTC would award bonuses to customers who referred others to GTC, in the form of a multi-level
marketing scheme.

2. At least 27 individual customers deposited at least $989,000 with one or more
representatives of GTC.

3. To conceal their fraud, Defendants caused misleading trading statements to be
posted online. GTC customers could access the online statements by logeimg into an Internet
web site and/or a smartphone app. These misicading trading statements did not accurately reflect
the Bitcom trading purportedly undertaken by Defendants and led certam customers to beheve
they were earning significant amounts of money from Defendants’ trading of Bitcoin on their
behalf.

4. At various times during the Relevant Period, at least some customers
unsuccesstully attempted to withdraw funds from their accounts. One or more Defendants
responded with purported explanations regarding why the money could not be withdrawn,
including that the web site and/or smartphone app were experiencing technical problems.
Eventually, Defendants stopped responding to customers, some of whom lost the full amount of
the funds they deposited with Defendants for trading.

5. By this conduct and the conduct further described herein, Defendants engaged,
are engaging, and/or are about to engage in fraudulent acts and practices in violation of Section
6(c)(1) of the Commeadity Exchange Act Act’), 7 U.S.C. § 9C1) 2018), and Commission
Regulation ( Regulation”) 180. (a), P7 CPLR. § 180.1 (2019).

6. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § I3a-1 (2018), the
Commission brings this action to enjom Defendants’ unlawful acts and practices, to compel their

comphance with the Act and Regulations, and to further enjoin Defendants from engaging in any
fFPAPOA Ga TY OPM Dann Oat 13
MUSOin TXRSD Page Soft is

} Le '

rane,

commodity interest-related activity. In addition, the Commission seeks civil monetary penalties,
restitution, and ancillary remedial relief, including, but not limited to, trading and registration
bans, rescission, disgorgement of benefits derived from Defendants’ illegal activities, fees and
costs, pre-judgment and post-judgment interest, and such other equitable relief as the Court may
deem necessary and appropriate.
i, JURESDICTION AND VENUE

7. The Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331 (2018)
(federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. $ 1345 (01%) (district courts have original
jurisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by any agency expressly
authorized to sue by Act of Congress}. In addition, Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. $ I3a-1
(2018), provides that United States district courts possess jurisdiction to hear actions brought by
the CFPC for injunctive relief or to enforce compliance with the Act whenever it shall appear to
the CFPC that such person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice
constituting a violation of any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder.

3. Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § i3a-lfe) because
Defendants reside im this District, transact or transacted busmess m this District, and certain
transactions, acts, practices and courses of business alleged in this Complaint occurred within
this District, among other places.

Ti, THE PARTIES

9, Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent federal
regulatory agency charged by Congress with the administration and enforcement of the Act, and
the Regulations promulgated thereunder. The CFTC maintains its principal office at Three

Lafayette Centre, L155 21st Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

Lao
Case 4:20-cv-03185 Document1 Filed on 09/11/20 in TXSD Page 4 of 13

10. Defendant Mayco Alexis Maldonado Garcia is an individual residing in
Pearland, Texas. Maldonado is also known by the names Mayco Maldonado and Mike
Maldonado. He has never been registered with the CFTC.

11. Defendant Cesar Castaneda is an individual residing in Spring, Texas. Cesar
Castaneda is also known by the name Cesar Castaneda Garcia. He has never been registered
with the CFTC.

12. Defendant Joel Castaneda Garcia is an individual residing in Port St. Lucie,
Florida. During the Relevant Period, he resided in Houston, Texas. He is the brother of Cesar
Castaneda and is also known by the name Joel Castaneda. He has never been registered with the
CFTC.

13. Defendant Rodrigo Jose Castro Molina is an individual residing in Houston,
Texas. He is also known by the names Rodrigo Castro, Jose Molina, and Jose Castro. He has
never been registered with the CFTC.

IV. STATUTORY BACKGROUND

14. Digital assets such as Bitcoin are encompassed in the definition of “commodity”
under Section la(9) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la(Q) (2018). For the purposes of this Complaint, a
digital asset, also known as “virtual currency” or “cryptocurrency”, means a digital
representation of value that functions as a medium of exchange, a unit of account, and/or a store
of value. Digital assets are distinct from “real” currencies, which are the coin and paper money
of the United States or another country that are designated as legal tender, circulate, and are
customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in the country of issuance. Digital
assets typically use cryptographic protocols to secure transactions in that asset and use
decentralized networks to track transactions between persons who are denominated only by

publicly visible strings of characters. The transactions are captured in single blocks at a time,

4
Case 4:20-cv-03185 Document1 Filed on 09/11/20 in TXSD Page 5 of 13

which independent operators (called “miners,” a virtual analogy to actual miners whose efforts
unearth gold, silver, and other precious metals) confirm by performing algorithmic proofs of
work and for which they are usually awarded a sum of the virtual currency in question. The
public nature of the decentralized ledger allows people to recognize the transfer of digital assets
from one user to another without requiring any central intermediary in which both users need to
trust.

V. FACTS
A. Defendants Solicited Customers to Purchase Bitcoin with GTC

15. In 2016, Defendants began to market a new business called GTC. The stated
purpose of GTC was to offer customers an opportunity to profit from speculative trading that
was based upon price fluctuations in Bitcoin.

16. Although Defendants marketed Bitcoin trading using the GTC name, GTC did not
exist as a separate legal entity. Instead, Defendants Maldonado, Cesar Castaneda, and Joel
Castaneda used separate corporate entities, and opened bank accounts in the names of those
entities, through which they accepted deposits from GTC customers.

17. During the Relevant Period, Defendants continued to promote the GTC business

using numerous channels, including a web site, www.gtcexchange.com (“GTC web site’”’); a

 

smartphone app called “GTC Digital’; videos posted to a YouTube channel; and a Facebook
page called Global Trading Club. The GTC web site and Facebook page presented Castro as a
key leader in the company. On the GTC web site, Castro was listed a member of GTC’s “Master
Council Leadership’; on the GTC Facebook page and Castro’s personal Facebook page, Castro
was called a “Financial Advisor Bitcoin” and a “Master Council” for GTC.

18. Additionally, throughout the Relevant Period, Defendants made representations

directly to actual and potential customers during GTC “cryptocurrency” seminars held by

5
Case 4:20-cv-03185 Document1 Filed on 09/11/20 in TXSD Page 6 of 13

Defendants in Houston and elsewhere in the United States. During these seminars, Defendants

shared a GTC marketing presentation, which contained the same representations found on the

GTC web site and in the YouTube videos.

19.

following:

20.

The GTC seminars conducted by one or more of the Defendants included the

In September 2016, Maldonado spoke to members of a Korean-American
church at a luncheon in Santa Maria, California;

In September 2016 and February 2017, Maldonado spoke to potential
customers at a seminar held in Hawaii;

In September 2016, Castro and Maldonado spoke with potential customers in
Los Angeles, and Castro spoke with potential customers in Las Vegas. Castro
advertised these seminars in Spanish-language posts on Facebook;

In September 2016, Castro, Cesar Castaneda, Joel Castaneda, and Maldonado
hosted a seminar at Drury Inn and Suites in Houston. Castro advertised the
seminar in a Spanish-language post on Facebook.

In November 2016, Castro spoke with potential customers in Miami. He
advertised this seminar in a Spanish-language post on Facebook, as well as a
Spanish-language multilevel marketing web site, www.universomlm.com, in
which Castro is referenced as a “socio fundador” (translated as “founding
member’) and “Master Internacional” (translated as “International Master’) of
GTC. Castro also purported to achieve “un explosivo crecimiento en apenas
dos meses” (translated as “explosive growth in two short months’) for GTC;
and

 

In December 2016, Defendants hosted a GTC holiday party for potential
customers at a hotel in Houston. Maldonado, Cesar Castaneda, Joel
Castaneda, and Rodrigo Castro attended.

Throughout the Relevant Period, Maldonado also held one-on-one and small-

group meetings with potential customers. Some of these meetings took place at a business office

located in an apartment complex in Houston. During these meetings, Maldonado shared the

GTC marketing presentation with customers.
P4239 A TYeP Dann Fat i3
MUSsOin TXRSD Page fortis

} Le '

rane,

21. Defendants marketed the GTC business to non-Enghish-speaking residents of the
United States. The GTC web site highlighted Korean- and Spanish-speaking representatives of
the business. Maldonado circulated Spanish and Korean translations of the GTC marketing
presentation to the other Defendants, as well as other individuals who marketed the GTC
business on behalf of Defendants. The YouTube videos were also translated into Spanish,
Korean, and other languages.

B. Defendants Made False and Misleading Representations when Soliciting
GTC Customers

22. The GTC web site, YouTube videos, marketing presentations, and/or other GTC
marketing matenals included the following representations:
e@ GTC employed “over 75 master traders”
® These traders had years of trading experience m “crypto currency” trading;
® GTC customer “capital is continuously being traded in a real time
environment, by our expert traders and cutting edge trading robots 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week.”

® “With our automated trading software and monitoring system, trades are done
automatic [sic] for members with no risk. Finally the best way to trade with

+ 99

no experience. ‘Put your hitcoin to work for you’.” (emphasis in original)

23. The GYC marketing materials further represented that customers could join one of
multiple GTC membership levels, ranging from $250 CEntrepreneur” level to $31,000
(‘Founder Trader” level). The GPC marketing materials set forth guaranteed specific daily
earnings, which would merease based on the customer's membership level at GTC,

24. The GTC marketing materials offered further earnings through its multi-level
marketing structure, under which customers could earn additional money by referring new
customers to GTC. Customers were promised a cash bonus for each direct referral, in the

amount of 20 percent of the deposit made by the referred customer. Customers were further
See ATL ABVPOr NY aan 4 PE es ed ge YAP ALON LA TYE te Onl 29
‘ Nee fle Pts Py Sb Ferma oF Raise me PRCA PPE ae PWR at Roepe RA ot TES
Wet Shee UO Go LSA fed aT OGM SO in FXSD | QQ G OP 1

offered bonuses for indirect referrals and a “bimary matching bonus” tor multi-level marketing
“teams.” The amount of the bonuses increased if customers made additional deposits with GTC,
which placed them at a higher membership level within GTC,

25. Defendants made representations similar to those set forth in Paragraphs 22-24
during the GTC seminars, meetings with small groups of customers, and/or individual customer
meetings described in paragraphs 15-21.

26. The representations set forth in Paragraphs 22-24 are false. Upon information and
behef, Defendants employed no traders, and neither created nor used any trading robots.
Accordingly, GTC customer capital was not “being traded in a real tume environment, by our
expert traders and cutting edge trading robots 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.” Additionally, one
or more GTC customers did not receive any daily earnings or referral bonuses.

27, Defendants concealed their fraudulent conduct by causing misleading trading
statements to be posted online. GTC customers could access the online statements by logging
into a web site and/or the GTC Digital app, using a username and password. Once flogged in,
customers could see how much money they'd earned from GTC's purported trading on their
behalf. Opon information and belief, these misleading trading staternents did not accurately
reflect the Bitcom trading purportedly undertaken by Defendants and led at least certain

customers to believe they were earning significant profits from their Bitcomm trading.
Case 4:20-cv-03185 Document1 Filed on 09/11/20 in TXSD Page 9 of 13

VI. VIOLATIONS OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT AND
COMMISSION REGULATIONS

COUNT I
FRAUD BY DECEPTIVE DEVICE OR CONTRIVANCE

Violations of Section 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2018)
and Regulation 180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2019)

28. Paragraphs | through 27 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.
29. 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) provides, in relevant part:

It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to use or
employ or attempt to use or employ, in connection with any swap,
or a contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or
for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered
entity, any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance, in
contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission
shall promulgate ....

30. 17 C.F.R. § 180.1 provides, in relevant part:

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, in
connection with any swap, or contract of sale of any
commodity in interstate commerce, or contract for future
delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, to
intentionally or recklessly:

(1) Use or employ, or attempt to use or employ, any manipulative
device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;

(2) Make, or attempt to make, any untrue or misleading statement
of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in
order to make the statements made not untrue or misleading;

(3) Engage, or attempt to engage, in any act, practice, or course of
business, which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon any person,....

31. Digital assets such as Bitcoin are encompassed in the definition of “commodity”

under Section 1a(9) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la(9) (2018).
oP on ye ALN . me Or my - preg . Nest a fe fT “— oN eS Tm 2 i ~y
Meee APE ad TY Se PPS PTC hee PSR EN ayeE F TLS : Pe }oags g Ses : 4 Lee ee PER oat
A CRO SR UPA OER LAGER AL PUREE: GPP ey ba BPG PCS LAP GP BG

32. During the Relevant Period, Defendants intentionally or recklessly used or
employed manipulative or deceptive devices or contrivances, in connection with contracts of sale
of any commodity in interstate commerce, including:

a. Musrepresenting that GTC employed “over 75 master traders” who had years of
trading experience;

b. Musrepresenting that GTC customer moneys were being traded “by our expert
traders and cutting edge trading robots 24 hours a day, 7 days a week”;

Musrepresenting that GTC customers could achieve specific daily earnings;

OQ

d. Musrepresenting that GPC customers could earn bonuses by referring other
customers to GTC; and

e. Causing falsified information to be posted to a GTC web site and GTC Digital

app that misrepresented the purported profits being earned by and for
CUSTOMICTS.

33. Each misrepresentation or omission of material fact, including, but not limited to,
those specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a separate and distinct violation by Defendants of
TUS. § 9G) and 17 CPLR. § (80.1 (a).

34. Each manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance, inchiding but not limited to
those specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a separate and distinct violation of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1)
and 17 CLFLR. § 180. f(a).

e

YH. RELIEF REQUESTED

WHEREPORE, the CFTC respectfully requests that this Court, as authorized by Section
6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § [3a-1 2012), and pursuant to the Court’s inherent equitable powers,

enter:

A. An order finding Defendants liable for violating Section 6(c}(L) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

$ 9(1) (2018), and Regulation 180.1(a), 17 CLFLR. § 180.1 (a) (2019);
“3 Ns ay Ber or rye , mil . NO TPO les TO Than * of *
PRR eM Le dP Ob POMC Ere Mian an AG Pen in 7 Ses ry LRN OT me &
Bea PM OAS a A RAL EE PRS Pe POPSRGAA AEE A ae Co rn ee 5 a Pr SALEN i Wea ~

An order of permanent injunction restraining and enjoining Defendants and their

affilhates, agents, servants, employees, successors, assigns, attorneys, and all persons

in active concert with them, who recetve actual notice of such order by personal

service or otherwise, from engaging m the conduct described above, m violation of

7ULS.C.§$ 91) and 17 CLRLR. § 180. 1a);

An order of permanent injunction restraining and enjoining Defendants and thew

alfihates, agents, servants, employees, successors, assigns, attorneys, and all persons

in active concert with them, from directly or indirectly:

ch,

b.

Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined
in Section La(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 8 la(40) 2018));

Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (2019)) for accounts held in the name
of Defendants or for accounts in which Defendants have a direct or indirect
interest;

Having any commodity interests traded on Defendants’ behalf,

Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving commodity
interests;

Soliciting, receiving or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the CFTC

in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring registration or exemption
mae ALN - Amer oar mm, aw reed . Abt a yas f “ee ant Moses AE ns “sy
ARE Arnel EOAs. Ys bog’ PEON! Radice mam Fela? ‘ ary im og Ses 7 Ley mi a
Se CASE Ti A OO a a? Ra ARS PAG ED PORRRE ASE Ae es Raf Gk OT 5 aa? 4 Las a. & Mae Ne

from registration with the CPTC, except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)}(9),
17 CLRLR. § 4.14(a)(9) 019); and

g. Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 CLPLR.
® 3.1(a) (2019)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person registered,
exempted from registration, or required to be registered with the CPTC, except as

provided for in 17 CLP_R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2019);

D. An order requiring that Defendants, as well as any successors, disgorge to any officer

Ry,

appointed or directed by the Court all benefits received from the acts or practices that
constitute violations of the Act and Reeulations as described herein, mcluding, but
not Hmited to, salaries, commiussions, loans, fees, revenues and trading profits
derived, directly or indirectly, plus pre-judgment interest thereon from the date of
such violations, and post-pudgment interest;

An order requiring Defendants and any of their successors to make full restitution to
every person or entity whose funds Defendants received or caused another person or
entity fo receive pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, to every
customer whose funds Defendants received or caused another person or entity to
receive as a result of the acts and practices described herein which constitute
violations of the Act and Regulations, and pre-judgment interest from the date of such
violations;

An order directing Defendants, as well as any successors, to rescind, pursuant to such
procedure as the Court may order, all contracts and agreements, whether impled or

express, eritered into between them and any of the customers whose funds were
Case 4:20-cv-03185 Document1 Filed on 09/11/20 in TXSD Page 13 of 13

received by them as a result of the acts and practices which constitute violations of
the Act and Regulations, as described herein;

G. An order directing Defendants to pay a civil monetary penalty for each violation of
the Act and Regulations of not more than the amount set forth by Section 6c(d)(1) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(d)(1) (2018), as adjusted for inflation pursuant to the
Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, Pub. L.
114-74, 129 Stat. 584 (2015), title VII, Section 701, and promulgated in Commission
Regulation 143.8, 17 C.F.R. § 143.8 (2019), plus post-judgment interest;

H. An order requiring Defendants, as well as any successors, to pay costs and fees as
permitted by 28 U.S.C. §§ 1920 and 2412(a)(2) (2018); and

I An order providing such other and further relief as the Court may deem necessary and

appropriate under the circumstances.

Dated: September 11, 2020

 

Alatimer-zayets@cftc.gov

James A. Garcia
(202) 418-6767 (direct)
jgarcia@cftc.gov

Attorneys for Plaintiff

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

Three Lafayette Centre

1155 21st Street NW

Washington, DC 20581

(202) 418-5000

(202) 418-5937 (facsimile)

13
