Case 4:16-cr-00409 Document 37 Filed in TXSD on 10/28/16 Page 1 of 18

 

Sealed
Public and unofficial staff access
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT to this bnatrement-ate
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS prohibited by co a
HOUSTON DIVISION

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vv.

CRIMINAL NO. H-|6- CR-409- |

DOUGLAS RAY UNDER SEAL

Cr Qr Cr Dr > CO?

PLEA AGREEMENT

The United States of America, by and through Andrew Weissmann, Chief of the Fraud
Section of the Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice (“Fraud Section”), and
Christopher Cestaro and Kevin R. Gingras, Trial Attorneys, Fraud Section, and Kenneth
Magidson, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, and Arthur R. Jones,
Assistant United States Attorneys, and Defendant, Douglas Ray (“Defendant’’), and Defendant’s
counsel, pursuant fe Rule 11(c)(1)(B) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, state that they
have entered into an agreement, the terms and conditions of which are as follows:

The Defendant’s Agreement

1. Defendant agrees to plead guilty to Count One and Count Two of the Information.
Count One charges Defendant with conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Title
15 United States Code, Section 78dd-2 (““FCPA”), in violation of Title 18, United States Code,
Section 371. Count Two charges Defendant with conspiracy to commit wire fraud, Title 18 United
States Code, Section 1343, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. Defendant,
by entering this plea, agrees that he is waiving any right to have the facts that the law makes
essential to the punishment either charged in an Indictment or proven to a jury or judge beyond a

reasonable doubt.
Mase 4:16-cr-00409 Documents? Filecin TXSD on 1/28/16 Page Satis

Punishment Range

2. The statutory maximum penalty for Count One, a violation of Title 18, United
States Code, Section 371, is a term of imprisonment of not more than five years and a fine of not
more than $250,000 or twice the pecuniary gain or loss from the crime. The statutory maximum
penalty for Count Two, a violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, is also a term of
imprisonment of not more than five years and a fine of not more than $250,000 or twice the
pecuniary gain or loss from the crime. Additionally, Defendant may receive a term of supervised
release after imprisonment of up to three years. See Title 18, United States Code, Sections
3571(b)(3), 3571(d), and 3583(b)(2). Defendant acknowledges and understands that if he should
violate the conditions of any period of supervised release which may be imposed as part of his
sentence, then Defendant may be imprisoned for the entire term of supervised release, without
credit for time already served on the term of supervised release prior to such violation. See Title
18, United States Code, Section 3583(e)(3). Defendant understands that he cannot have the
imposition or execution of the sentence suspended, nor is he eligible for parole.

Mandatory Special Assessment

3, Pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3013(a)(2)(A), immediately after
sentencing, Defendant will pay to the Clerk of the United States District Court a special assessment
in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per count of conviction.

Immigration Consequences

4, Defendant recognizes that pleading guilty may have consequences with respect to
his immigration status if he is not a citizen of the United States. Defendant understands that if he
is not a citizen of the United States, by pleading guilty he may be removed from the United States,

denied citizenship, and denied admission to the United States in the future. Defendant’s attorney

 
Mase 4:16-cr-00409 Documents? Filecdin TXSD on 1O/28/16 Page Satis

has advised Defendant of the potential immigration consequences resulting from Defendant’s plea
of guilty.
Cooperation

5. The parties understand this Agreement carries the potential for a motion for
departure under Section 5K1.1 of the United States Sentencing Guidelines (“Sentencing
Guidelines”). Defendant understands and agrees that whether such a motion is filed will be
determined solely by the United States through the United States Attorney for the Southern District
of Texas and the Fraud Section. Should Defendant’s cooperation, in the sole judgment and
discretion of the United States, amount to “substantial assistance,” the United States reserves the
sole right to file a motion for departure pursuant to Section 5K1.1 of the Sentencing Guidelines.
Defendant further agrees to persist in that plea through sentencing, and fully cooperate with the
United States. Defendant understands and agrees that the United States will request that sentencing
be deferred until that cooperation is complete.

6. Defendant understands and agrees that the usage “fully cooperate,” as used herein,
includes providing all information relating to any criminal activity known to Defendant, including,
but not limited to, violations of the FCPA, wire fraud, and money laundering. Defendant
understands that such information includes both state and federal offenses arising therefrom. In
that regard:

(a) Defendant agrees that this Plea Agreement binds only the United States
Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, and the United States
Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section, and Defendant,
and that it does not bind any other United States Attorney or other
component or unit of the Department of Justice;

(b) Defendant agrees to testify truthfully as a witness before a grand jury or in
any other judicial or administrative proceeding when called upon to do so

by the United States. Defendant further agrees to waive his Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination for the purpose of this

 

 
Case 416-cr-00409 Documents? Filedin TXSD on 1/25/16 Page 4 of 18

Agreement;

(c) Defendant agrees to voluntarily attend any interviews and conferences as
the United States may request;

(d) Defendant agrees to provide truthful, complete, and accurate information
and testimony and understands any false statements made by Defendant to
the grand jury or at any court proceeding (criminal or civil), or to a
government agent or attorney, can and will be prosecuted under the
appropriate perjury, false statement, or obstruction statutes;

(e) Defendant agrees to provide to the United States all documents in his
possession or under his control relating to all areas of inquiry and
investigation; and -

(f) Should the recommended departure, if _any, not meet Defendant’s
expectations, Defendant understands he remains bound by the terms of this
Agreement and that he cannot, for that reason alone, withdraw his plea.

Waiver of Appeal

7, Defendant is aware that Title 28, United States Code, Section 1291, and Title 18,
United States Code, Section 3742, afford a defendant the right to appeal the conviction and
sentence imposed. Defendant knowingly and voluntarily waives the right to appeal the conviction
and the sentence imposed, or the manner in which the sentence was determined, except Defendant
may appeal a sentence above the statutory maximum penalty for the offenses charged in Count
One and Count Two of the Information. Additionally, Defendant is aware that Title 28, United
States Code, Section 2255, affords the right to contest or “collaterally attack” a conviction or
sentence after the conviction or sentence has become final. Defendant knowingly and voluntarily
waives the right to contest his conviction or sentence by means of any post-conviction proceeding,
except that Defendant does not waive the right to raise a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel
on direct appeal, if otherwise permitted, or on collateral review in a motion under Title 28, United

States Code, Section 2255. In the event the Defendant files a notice of appeal following the

imposition of the sentence, the United States will assert its rights under this agreement and seek

 
Case 416-cr-00409 Documents? Filedin TXSD on 1/25/16 Page 5 of 18

specific performance of this waiver.

8. In agreeing to these waivers, Defendant is aware that a sentence has not yet been
determined by the Court. Defendant is also aware that any estimate of the possible sentencing
range under the Sentencing Guidelines that he may have received from his counsel, the United
States, or the Probation Office, is a prediction, not a promise, and such estimate did not induce
his guilty plea and is binding on neither the United States, the Probation Office, nor the Court.
The United States does not make any promise or representation concerning what sentence
Defendant will receive. Defendant further understands and agrees that the Sentencing Guidelines
are “effectively advisory” to the Court. United States v. Booker, 125 S.Ct. 738 (2005).
Accordingly, Defendant understands that, although the Court must consult the Sentencing
Guidelines and must take them into account when sentencing Defendant, the Court is not bound
to follow the Sentencing Guidelines nor sentence Defendant within the calculated guideline range.

9. Defendant understands and agrees that each and all waivers contained in the
Agreement are made in exchange for the concessions made by the United States in this Plea
Agreement.

The United States’ Agreements

10. The United States agrees to each of the following:

(a) At the time of sentencing, the United States agrees not to oppose
Defendant’s anticipated request to the Court and the United States Probation
Office that he receive a two-level downward adjustment under Section
3El.1(a) of the Sentencing Guidelines should Defendant accept
responsibility as contemplated by the Sentencing Guidelines; and

(b) If Defendant qualifies for an adjustment under U.S.S.G. Section 3E1.1(a)
and Defendant’s offense level is 16 or greater, the United States may move
for an additional one-level downward adjustment based on the timeliness of

the plea or the expeditious manner in which Defendant provided complete
information regarding his role in the offense.

 
Mase 4:16-cr-00409 Documents? Filecdin TXSD on 1/28/16 Page Gaf18

Agreement Binding Only Southern District of Texas and
U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section

11. The United States agrees that it will not further criminally prosecute Defendant in
the Southern District of Texas for offenses arising from conduct charged in the Information. This
Plea Agreement binds only the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas;
the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section; and Defendant. It does
not bind any other United States Attorney or any other component or unit of the Department of
Justice. The United States will bring this Plea Agreement and the full extent of Defendant’s
cooperation to the attention of other prosecuting offices if requested.

United States’ Non-Waiver of Appeal

12. The United States reserves the right to carry out its responsibilities under the
Sentencing Guidelines. Specifically, the United States reserves the right to:

(a) Bring its version of the facts of this case, including its evidence file and
any investigative files, to the attention of the Probation Office in
connection with that office’s preparation of a presentence report;

(b) Set forth or dispute sentencing factors or facts material to sentencing;

(c) Seek resolution of such factors or facts in conference with Defendant’s
counsel and the Probation Office;

(d) File a pleading relating to these issues, in accordance with U.S.S.G.
Section 6A1.2 and Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553(a); and

(e) Appeal the sentence imposed or the manner in which it was determined.
Sentence Determination
13. Defendant is aware that the sentence will be imposed after consideration of the
Sentencing Guidelines, which are only advisory, as well as the provisions of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 3553(a). Defendant nonetheless acknowledges and agrees that the Court has

authority to impose any sentence up to and including the statutory maximum set for the offense(s)

 
Mase 4:16-cr-00409 Documents? Filecdin TXSD on 1/28/16 Page 7 otis

to which Defendant pleads guilty, and that the sentence to be imposed is within the sole discretion
of the sentencing judge after the Court has consulted the applicable Sentencing Guidelines.
Defendant understands and agrees the parties’ positions regarding the application of the
Sentencing Guidelines do not bind the Court, and that the sentence imposed is within the discretion
of the sentencing judge. If the Court should impose any sentence up to the maximum established
by statute, or should the Court order any or all of the sentences imposed to run consecutively,
Defendant cannot, for that reason alone, withdraw a guilty plea, and will remain bound to fulfill
all of the obligations under this Plea Agreement.
Waiver of Rights

14. Defendant represents to the Court that he is satisfied that his attorney has rendered
effective assistance. Defendant understands that by entering into this Agreement, he surrenders
certain rights as provided in this Plea Agreement. Defendant understands that those rights include
the following:

(a) Defendant understands that he has the right to have the facts of this case
presented to a federal grand jury, consisting of between sixteen and twenty-
three citizens, twelve of whom would have to find probable cause to believe
that he committed the offense set forth in the information before an
indictment could be returned. Defendant acknowledges that he is
knowingly and intelligently waiving his right to be indicted.

(b) If Defendant persisted in a plea of not guilty to the charges, Defendant
would have the right to a speedy jury trial with the assistance of counsel.
The trial may be conducted by a judge sitting without a jury if Defendant,
the United States, and the court all agree.

a) Ata trial, the United States would be required to present witnesses and other
evidence against Defendant. Defendant would have the opportunity to
confront those witnesses and his attorney would be allowed to cross-
examine them. In turn, Defendant could, but would not be required to,
present witnesses and other evidence on his own behalf. If the witnesses

for Defendant would not appear voluntarily, he could require their
attendance through the subpoena power of the court.

 
Mase 4:16-cr-00409 Documents? Filecdin TXSD on 1/28/16 Page Batis

(d)  Atatrial, Defendant could rely on a privilege against self-incrimination and
decline to testify, and no inference of guilt could be drawn from such refusal
to testify. However, if Defendant desired to do so, he could testify on his
own behalf.

Factual Basis for Guilty Plea

15. Defendant is pleading guilty because he is guilty of the charges contained in Count
One and Count Two of the Information. If this case were to proceed to trial, the United States
could prove each element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt. The following facts, among
others, would be offered to establish Defendant’s guilt:

“Foreign State Government |” was the government of one of the thirty-one states that
comprise Mexico.

“Foreign Official 1” was an employee of Foreign State Government | with responsibility
for maintaining Foreign State Government 1’s aircraft from at least in or around 2005 to in or
around December 2010.

“Foreign State Government 2” was the government of one of the thirty-one states that
comprise Mexico.

“Foreign Official 2” was an employee of Foreign State Government 2 with responsibility
for maintaining Foreign State Government 2’s aircraft from at least in or around 2005 through at
least in or around 2010.

“Foreign State Government 3” was the government of one of the thirty-one states that
comprise Mexico.

“Foreign Official 3” was an employee of Foreign State Government 3 with responsibility

for maintaining Foreign State Government 3’s aircraft from at least in or around 2006 through at

least in or around 2014.

 
Case 416-cr-00409 Documents? Fiedin TXSD on 1/25/16 Page Sof is

“Foreign State Government 4” was the government of one of the thirty-one states that
comprise Mexico.

“Foreign Official 4” was an employee of Foreign State Government 4 with responsibility
for maintaining Foreign State Government 4’s aircraft from at least in or around 2005 through at
least in or around 2013.

“Foreign Law Enforcement” was a federal law enforcement organization of Mexico.

“Foreign Official 5,” “Foreign Official 6,” and “Foreign Official 7” were employees of
Foreign Law Enforcement with responsibility for maintaining Foreign Law Enforcement’s aircraft
from at least in or around 2009 through at least in or around 2012.

“Aviation Corporation A” was a United States company, headquartered in Houston, Texas,
which provided maintenance, repair, overhaul, and related services to customers in the United
States and Mexico, including to Foreign State Government 1, Foreign State Government 2, Foreign
State Government 3, Foreign State Government 4, Foreign Law Enforcement, and others.

The defendant, DOUGLAS RAY (“defendant RAY”) was a citizen of the United States
and a resident of Texas. Defendant RAY was the President of Aviation Corporation A and an
owner of Aviation Corporation A from at least in or around 2002 through at least in or around May
2016.

“Co-Conspirator 1” was a citizen of Mexico. Co-Conspirator | was an agent of Aviation
Corporation A from at least in or around 2006 through at least in or around May 2016. Co-
Conspirator | met with defendant RAY in the United States and received corrupt payments from
Aviation Corporation A into bank accounts in the United States.

The Conspiracy to violate the FCPA

From at least in or around 2006 through in or around March 2016, defendant RAY and

 
Case 416-cr-00409 Documenta? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page 10 of 18

others, known and unknown, including Co-Conspirator 1, knowingly, willfully, and corruptly
agreed to make payments, and caused Aviation Corporation A to make payments, to foreign
officials (the “Foreign Officials”), including Foreign Official 1, Foreign Official 2, Foreign
Official 3, Foreign Official 4, Foreign Official 5, Foreign Official 6, Foreign Official 7, and others,
to influence the Foreign Officials in their official capacity and to secure an improper advantage
for Aviation Corporation A in order to assist Aviation Corporation A in obtaining and retaining
business with Foreign State Government 1, Foreign State Government 2, Foreign State
Government 3, Foreign State Government 4, Foreign Law Enforcement, and other foreign
governments, agencies, and instrumentalities thereof (the “Foreign Governments and
Instrumentalities”’).

In furtherance of the bribe scheme, defendant RAY communicated with others, including
Co-Conspirator | and the Foreign Officials, about the bribes, and defendant RAY, together with
others, caused bribe payments to be made to the Foreign Officials that were deposited into bank
accounts in Texas and elsewhere. Defendant RAY, Co-Conspirator 1, and others also caused
corrupt payments to be made into Co-Conspirator 1’s bank accounts in the United States and
caused bribe payments to be made in cash in Mexico. For example, defendant RAY and others
caused Aviation Corporation A to make: (i) a corrupt payment in the amount of approximately
$155,000 from Aviation Corporation A’s bank account in Texas in or around December 15, 2010
to Foreign Official 1’s bank account in Texas, (ii) a corrupt payment in the amount of
approximately $10,000 from Aviation Corporation A’s bank account in Texas in or around June
11, 2009 to Foreign Official 2, (iii) a corrupt payment in the amount of approximately $3,299 from
Aviation Corporation A’s bank account in Texas in or around June 29, 2011 to Foreign Official 3,

(iv) a corrupt payment in the amount of approximately $9,748 from Aviation Corporation A’s bank

10

 
Case &16-cr-00409 Documenta? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page Li of is

account in Texas in or around March 12, 2009 to Foreign Official 4, and (v) a corrupt payment in
the amount of approximately $19,754 from Aviation Corporation A’s bank account in Texas in or
around February 29, 2012 to Co-Conspirator 1.

Defendant RAY knew it was wrong to make the payments, and knew that the purpose of
the corrupt payments was to influence the Foreign Officials in their official capacity in order to
improperly secure business with the Foreign Governments and Instrumentalities. F urther,
defendant RAY and others took steps to conceal the bribe scheme, including by hiding the amount
of the bribe payments in invoices sent to the Foreign Governments and Instrumentalities.

From at least in or around 2006 through in or around March 2016, defendant RAY and
others knowingly, willfully, and corruptly conspired and agreed to cause Aviation Corporation A
to make bribe payments to the Foreign Officials totaling more than $1,500,000 in association with
the bribe scheme.

The Conspiracy to commit Wire Fraud

From at least in or around 2006 through in or around March 2016, defendant RAY and
others, known and unknown, including Co-Conspirator 1, knowingly, willfully, and intentionally
agreed to devise, and did devise, a scheme and artifice to defraud privately owned entities in the
United States and in Mexico to obtain money from those entities by means of materially false and
fraudulent pretenses and representations and did knowingly transmit, and cause to be transmitted,
wire communications in interstate commerce for the purpose of executing the scheme.

Defendant RAY and other co-conspirators, including Co-Conspirator 1, agreed that
Aviation Corporation A would pay bribes and kickbacks to employees, agents, and representatives
of privately owned entities, and agreed they would conceal material facts from those entities in

connection with the bribery and kickback schemes.

1]

 
Case &16-cr-00409 Documenta? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page 12 of 18

In furtherance of the scheme, among other things: (i) defendant RAY and his co-
conspirators discussed the-corrupt payment of bribes and kickbacks to employees, agents, and
representatives in person and through other means, including on the telephone and through
electronic mail; (ii) defendant RAY and his co-conspirators knowingly and intentionally caused
Aviation Corporation A to send invoices from the Southern District of Texas to privately owned
entities located in the United States and Mexico that hid the cost of bribe and kickback payments
promised to employees, agents, and representatives of those entities within Aviation Corporation
A’s pricing; and (iii) defendant RAY and his co-conspirators knowingly and intentionally caused
privately owned entities located in the United States and Mexico to make wire payments from
bank accounts located in the United States and Mexico to the bank account of Aviation Corporation
A for goods and services procured as a result of the scheme to defraud. For example, on or about
May 23, 2011 and on or about February 10, 2014, defendant RAY and others caused Aviation
Corporation A to send invoices from the Southern District of Texas to a privately owned entity in
Mexico that were inflated and hid the cost of bribe and kickback payments promised to an
employee of the entity.

Breach of Plea Agreement

16. If Defendant should fail in any way to fulfill completely all of the obligations under
this Plea Agreement, the United States ‘will be released from its obligations under the Plea
Agreement, and Defendant’s plea and sentence will stand. If at any time Defendant retains,
conceals or disposes of assets in violation of this Plea Agreement, or if Defendant knowingly
withholds evidence or is otherwise not completely truthful with the United States, then the United
States may move the Court to set aside the guilty plea and reinstate prosecution. Any information

and documents that have been disclosed by Defendant, whether prior to or subsequent to this Plea

12

 
Case &16-cr-00409 Documenta? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page 13 of 18

Agreement, and all leads derived therefrom, will be used against Defendant in any prosecution.
Restitution, Forfeiture, and Fines — Generally

17. This Plea Agreement is being entered into by the United States on the basis of
Defendant’s express representation that he will make a full and complete disclosure of all assets
over which he exercises direct or indirect control, or in which he has any financial interest.
Defendant agrees not to dispose of any assets or take any action that would effect a transfer of
property in which he has an interest, unless Defendant obtains the prior written permission of the
United States.

18. Defendant agrees to make a complete financial disclosure by truthfully executing a
sworn financial statement (Form OBD-500 or similar form) within 14 days of signing this plea
agreement. Defendant agrees to authorize the release of all financial information requested by the
United States, including, but not limited to, executing authorization forms permitting the United
States to obtain tax information, bank account records, credit histories, and social security
information. Defendant agrees to discuss and answer any questions by the United States relating
to Defendant’s complete financial disclosure.

19. Defendant agrees to take all steps necessary to pass clear title to forfeitable assets
to the United States and to assist fully in the collection of restitution and fines, including, but not
limited to, surrendering title, executing a warranty deed, signing a consent decree, stipulating to
facts regarding the transfer of title and the basis for the forfeiture, and signing any other documents
necessary to effectuate such transfer. Defendant also agrees to direct any banks which have
custody of his assets to deliver all funds and records of such assets to the United States.

20. Defendant understands that forfeiture, restitution, and fines are separate

components of sentencing and are separate obligations.

13

 
Case 416-cr-00409 Documenta? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page l4 of 1s

Forfeiture

21. Defendant stipulates and agrees that the factual basis for his guilty plea supports
the forfeiture of proceeds that resulted from the conspiracies to which Defendant is pleading guilty,
and Defendant agrees to the imposition of a personal money judgment against him and in favor of
the United States. Prior to sentencing, Defendant and the United States will attempt to agree
upon the amount of a money judgment that represents the proceeds generated by the conspiracies.
If they cannot agree, then, pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P. 32.2(b)(1)(A), the Court will be asked to
determine, in advance of sentencing, the amount of money that the Defendant will be ordered to
pay. Ifthe Court imposes a money judgment, Defendant agrees to forfeit any of his property, or
his interest in property, up to the value of any unpaid portion of the money judgment, until the
money judgment is fully satisfied. Defendant stipulates and admits that one or more of the
conditions set forth in Title 21, United States Code, Section 853(p), exists.

22. Defendant agrees to waive any and all interest in any asset which is the subject of
arelated administrative or judicial forfeiture proceeding, whether criminal or civil, federal or state.

23. Defendant consents to any order of forfeiture, including any personal money
judgment, becoming final as to Defendant immediately following its entry, pursuant to Federal
Rule of Criminal Procedure 32.2(b)(4)(A), even if it is signed before sentencing.

24. Defendant waives any requirements of Rules 7, 32.2, and 43(a) of the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure regarding forfeiture, including notice of the forfeiture in the information,
announcement of the forfeiture at sentencing, and incorporation of the forfeiture in the judgment.

25. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 above, Defendant waives the right to

challenge forfeiture in any manner, including by direct appeal or in a collateral proceeding.

14

 
Ft
on
o
i
oO

Case 416-cr-00409 Documents? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page i

Fines

26. Defendant understands that under the Sentencing Guidelines the Court is permitted
to order Defendant to pay a fine that is sufficient to reimburse the government for the costs of any
imprisonment or term of supervised release, if any. Defendant agrees that any fine imposed by the
Court will be due and payable immediately, and Defendant will not attempt to avoid or delay
payment. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 above, Defendant waives the right to challenge
the fine in any manner, including by direct appeal or in a collateral proceeding.

Complete Agreement

27. This written Plea Agreement, consisting of 18 pages, including the attached
addendum of Defendant and his attorney, constitutes the complete Plea Agreement between the
United States, Defendant, and his counsel. No promises or representations have been made by the
United States except as set forth in writing in this Plea Agreement. Defendant acknowledges that

no threats have been made against him and that he is pleading guilty freely and voluntarily because

he is guilty.

15

 

 

 
Case 4:16-cr-00409 Document 37 Filed in TXSD on 10/28/16 Page 16 of 18

28. Any modification of this Plea Agreement must be in writing and signed by all

parties,

Filed at Leona fo , Texas,on___ “ - _ 200° *

 
   

 

 

Defendant

APPROVED:

KENNETH MAGIDSON ANDREW WEISSMANN

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY CHIEF, FRAUD SECTION

: EDA re Fo

By: &

ARTHUR R. JONES” CHRISTOPHER CESTARO

Assistant United States Attorney KEVIN R. GINRGAS

Southern District of Texas Trial Attorneys

United States Department of Justice
Criminal Division, Fraud Section

    

TIMOTH: D, BELEVE4
Attorney for Defendant

16

 
wad
on
fe
te,
-
vy
tA}

Case 416-cr-00409 Documents? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page i

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

HOUSTON DIVISION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA §
v. : _ CRIMINAL NO.
DOUGLAS RAY, :
: UNDER SEAL
Defendant. §

PLEA AGREEMENT - ADDENDUM

I have fully explained to Defendant his rights with respect to the Information. I have
reviewed the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual and
Policy Statements and I have fully and carefully explained to Defendant the provisions of those
Guidelines which may apply in this case. I have also explained to Defendant that the Sentencing
Guidelines are only advisory and the court may sentence Defendant up to the maximum allowed
by statute per count of conviction, Further, I have carefully reviewed every part of this Plea
Agreement with Defendant. To my knowledge, Defendant's decision to enter into this Agreement

is an informed and voluntary one.

 
 

6faalte

 

 

 

Attorney for Defendant ===: Date

[ have consulted with my attorney and fully understand all my rights with respect to the
Information pending against me, My attorney has fully explained and I understand all my rights

with respect to the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual

17

 

 
Case 416-cr-00409 Documents? Filed in TXSD on TO/S8/16 Page 18 of 4

which may apply in my case. I have read and carefully reviewed every part of this Plea Agreement
with my attorney. I understand this Agreement and I voluntarily agree to its terms.

( pork 4 6/25/2016
+ C/ | /

Defendant Date

18

 
