cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with SMART Payment Plan, LLC for
Deceptive Sales Practices

NOV 02, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against SMART Payment Plan, LLC (SMART), finding that the company’s
disclosures of its loan payment program contained misleading statements in violation of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010's prohibition against deceptive acts or practices.
SMART is a limited liability company with its principal place of business in Austin, Texas.
SMART operates a loan payment program for auto loans called the SMART Plan that
deducts payments from consumers’ bank accounts every two weeks and then forwards
these payments every month to the consumers’ lenders. The consent order imposes a
judgment against SMART requiring it to pay $7,500,000 in consumer redress and
requirements to prevent future violations.

SMART provided consumers individualized “benefits summaries” that purported to state a
specific amount of interest savings or other money savings consumers would get by
enrolling in the SMART Plan, but SMART’s fees would ordinarily exceed the savings.
SMART's disclosures thus created the misleading impression that consumers would save
money using its product.

The ordered redress amount is suspended upon SMART’s payment of $1,500,000 by
December 31, 2020 and a $1 civil money penalty to the Bureau. The suspension of the full
payment for redress, as well as the $1 civil penalty, is based on SMART’s demonstrated
inability to pay more based on sworn financial statements. Harmed consumers may be
eligible for additional relief from the Bureau’s Civil Penalty Fund. The consent order
prohibits SMART from making any misrepresentations about its payment programs. It also
requires SMART to account for the total costs for its payment programs, as well as the net
savings or costs after deducting any fees, whenever SMART makes claims about savings or
financial benefits.

The consent order against SMART can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_smart-payment-plan-Ilc_consent-

 

der_2020-11.pdf)
HHT

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
