ee

Case 3:i8-cr-G0212-JBA DocumentS Filed 02/26/15 Page 1 of 35

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

 

DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT
25 FER 2b P EOF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA CRIMINAL NO. 3:13CR212(AV.C)~ estoy
Py
v. VIOLATION: |
JUNJI KUSUNOKI, 18 U.S.C, § 371 (Conspiracy)
15 U.S.C. § 78dd-2 (Foreign Corrupt
REZA MOENAF, Practices Act)
18 U.S.C. § 1956(h) (Conspiracy to
and Commit Money Laundering)
18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(2)(A) (Money
EKO SULIANTO Laundering)
SUPERSEDING INDICTMENT
The Grand Jury charges:
COUNT ONE
(Conspiracy)

At all times relevant, unless otherwise specified:

1. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, Title 15, United States
Code, Sections 78dd-1, et seg. (“FCPA”), was enacted by Congress for the purpose of, among
other things, making it unlawful for certain classes of persons and entities to act corruptly in
furtherance of an offer, promise, authorization, or payment of money or anything of value to a
foreign government official for the purpose of assisting in obtaining or retaining business for, or
directing business to, any person.

The Defendants, Their Co-Conspirators and the Relevant Contracts

2. Alstom S.A. (“Alstom”) was headquartered in France. Alstom was in the

business of providing services related to power generation and transportation around the world,

including Indonesia. Alstom had sales of approximately €17 billion annually and approximately
Case 3:i8-cr-G0212-JBA Document Filed 02/26/15 Page 2 of 35

75,000 employees in over seventy countries. Shares of Alstom’s stock were listed on the New
York Stock Exchange until August 2004. Alstom had direct and indirect subsidiaries in various
countries around the world, including a subsidiary in Connecticut known as Alstom Power, Inc.
(“Alstom Power US”), a subsidiary in Indonesia known as PT Energy Systems Indonesia
(“Alstom Indonesia”), and a subsidiary in Switzerland known as Alstom Network Schweiz AG,
fka Alstom Prom AG (“Alstom Prom”), Alstom Power US was headquartered in Windsor,
Connecticut, incorporated in Delaware, and thus a “domestic concern,” as that term is used in the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1)(B). Through its subsidiaries,
including Alstom Power US, Alstom Indonesia, and Alstom Prom, Alstom bid on projects to
secure contracts to perform power-related and transportation-related services, including for state-
owned entities.

3. Marubeni Corporation (“Marubeni”) was a trading company headquartered in
Japan that did business around the world, including Indonesia. Marubeni and its subsidiaries and
joint ventures had trading transactions of approximately $74 billion annually and approximately
24,000 employees in over 70 countries. In conducting its business, Marubeni received assistance
from its subsidiaries and joint ventures, including Marubeni Power Systems Corporation
(“MPSC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Marubeni that shared its offices with Marubeni and
acted as an agent on Marubeni’s behalf. Marubeni maintained a bank account at the Bank of
New York in New York.

4. The Tarahan Project (sometimes referred to simply as “Tarahan”), was a project
to provide power-related services to the citizens of Indonesia that was bid and contracted through

Indonesia’s state-owned and state-controlled electricity company, Perusahaan Listrik Negara

(“PLN”). Tarahan was valued at approximately $118 million. The Muara Tawar projects were a

 
Case 3:i8-cr-G0212-JBA Document Filed 02/26/15 Page 3 of 35

series of projects to perform services related to, and to expand, the Muara Tawar power plant and
provide power-related services to the citizens of Indonesia. One such project was the Muara
Tawar Block 5 Project, valued at approximately $260 million. Collectively, the Muara Tawar
projects were sometimes referred to as “Muara Tawar” or “MT.” PLN was responsible for
sourcing the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects.

5. Alstom, through its subsidiaries, including Alstom Power US, Alstom Indonesia,
and Alstom Prom, partnered with Marubeni to bid on and secure the Tarahan Project and Muara
Tawar Block 5 Project. Marubeni, through its employees and agents, attended meetings with
Alstom and Alstom Power US executives in Windsor, Connecticut, in connection with the
Tarahan Project. Thus, Marubeni was a “person,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15,
United States Code, Section 78dd-3(f)(1).

6. The defendant, JUNJI KUSUNOKI (“KUSUNOKI”), held several positions at
Marubeni, including Deputy General Manager of Marubeni’s Overseas Power Project
Department, General Manager of MPSC, and President of another Marubeni subsidiary.
KUSUNOKI’s responsibilities at Marubeni included obtaining contracts with new customers and
retaining contracts with existing customers on behalf and for the benefit of Marubeni in various
countries, including obtaining and retaining the contract for the Tarahan Project and Muara
Tawar Projects in Indonesia. KUSUNOKI was one of the people responsible for retaining
consultants on behalf of Marubeni, knowing that a portion of the payments to the consultants was
intended for Indonesian officials in exchange for their influence and assistance in awarding the
Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar contracts to Alstom, its subsidiaries, and Marubeni.

7. The defendant, REZA MOENAF (“MOENAF”), was the President of Alstom

Indonesia. MOENAF’s responsibilities at Alstom Indonesia included assisting other Alstom
Case 228-cr-00212-IBA Documents Filed 02/26/15 Page 4 of 35

entities’ efforts to obtain contracts with new customers and to retain contracts with existing
customers in Indonesia, including assisting Alstom Power US to obtain projects in Indonesia.
Thus, MOENAF was an agent of a “domestic concern,” Alstom Power US, as that term is used
in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1). MOENAF was one of the
people responsible for retaining consultants in connection with Alstom and its subsidiaries’
efforts to obtain and retain contracts in Indonesia, including for the Tarahan Project and Muara
Tawar Projects, knowing that a portion of the payments to the consultants was intended for
Indonesian officials in exchange for their influence and assistance in awarding the Tarahan
Project and Muara Tawar Projects contracts to Alstom, its subsidiaries, and Marubeni.

8. The defendant, EKO SULIANTO (“SULIANTO”), was the Director of Sales of
Alstom Indonesia. SULIANTO’s responsibilities at Alstom Indonesia included assisting other
Alstom entities’ efforts to obtain contracts with new customers and to retain contracts with
existing customers in Indonesia, including assisting Alstom Power US to obtain projects in
Indonesia. Thus, SULIANTO was an agent of a “domestic concern,” Alstom Power US, as that
term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1). SULIANTO was
one of the people responsible for retaining consultants in connection with Alstom and its
subsidiaries’ efforts to obtain and retain contracts in Indonesia, including for the Tarahan Project
and Muara Tawar Projects, knowing that a portion of the payments to the consultants was
intended for Indonesian officials in exchange for their influence and assistance in awarding the
Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects contracts to Alstom, its subsidiaries, and Marubeni.

9. Lawrence Hoskins (“Hoskins”), who has been charged separately, was an Alstom
Senior Vice President for the Asia region in Alstom’s International Network, which assisted

Alstom’s various power and transportation entities in obtaining contracts. Hoskins’

 

 
 

 

Case 228-cr-00212-IBA DBocumentS Filed 02/26/15 Page 5 of 35

responsibilities at Alstom included overseeing Alstom’s subsidiaries’ efforts to obtain contracts
with new customers and to retain contracts with existing customers in Asia, including the
Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects contracts in Indonesia. Thus, Hoskins was an agent
of a “domestic concern,” Alstom Power US, as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1). Hoskins was one of the people responsible for retaining
consultants for the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects, knowing that a portion of the
payments to the consultants was intended for Indonesian officials in exchange for their influence
and assistance in awarding the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects contracts to Alstom,
its subsidiaries, and Marubeni.

10. Frederic Pierucci (“Pierucci”), who has been charged separately, held executive
level positions at Alstom, including Vice President of Boiler Global Sales.  Pierucci’s
responsibilities at Alstom Power US included oversight of Alstom Power US’s efforts to obtain
contracts with new customers and to retain contracts with existing customers around the world,
including obtaining and retaining the contract for the Tarahan Project from PLN in Indonesia.
Pierucci was one of the people responsible for approving the selection of, and authorizing
payments to, consultants for the Tarahan Project, knowing that a portion of the payments to the
consultants was intended for Indonesian officials in exchange for their influence and assistance
in awarding the Tarahan Project contract to Alstom, its subsidiaries, and Marubeni.

ll. William Pomponi (“Pomponi”), who has been charged separately, was a Vice
President of Regional Sales at Alstom Power US. Pomponi’s responsibilities at Alstom Power
US included obtaining contracts with new customers and retaining contracts with existing
customers in various countries, including obtaining and retaining the contract for the Tarahan

Project in Indonesia. Pomponi was one of the people responsible for approving the actions of,

 
Case 3:15-cr-00212-IBA Document S Filed O2/26/15 Page 6 of 55

and authorizing payments to, consultants for the Tarahan Project, knowing that a portion of the
payments to the consultants was intended for Indonesian officials in exchange for their influence
and assistance in awarding the Tarahan Project contract to Alstom, its subsidiaries, and
Marubeni.

12, David Rothschild (“Rothschild”), who has been charged separately, was a Vice

President of Regional Sales at Alstom Power US. Rothschild’s responsibilities at Alstom Power

US included obtaining contracts with new customers and retaining contracts with existing
customers in various countries, including obtaining the contract for the Tarahan Project from
PLN in Indonesia. Rothschild was one of the people responsible for approving the actions of,
and authorizing payments to, consultants for the Tarahan Project, knowing that a portion of the
payments to the consultants was intended for Indonesian officials in exchange for their influence
and assistance in awarding the Tarahan Project contract to Alstom, its subsidiaries, and
Marubeni.

13. “Alstom Employee A,” an individual whose identity is known to the Grand Jury,
worked in Alstom’s Global Power Sales unit, which was responsible for business development of
Alstom’s various power business units. Alstom Employee A held various executive level
positions within Alstom, including a high level executive position at Alstom Indonesia.

14. “Consultant A,” an individual whose identity is known to the Grand Jury, was a
consultant who purportedly provided legitimate services on behalf of Alstom, its subsidiaries,
and Marubeni in connection with the bidding of the Tarahan Project in Indonesia. In reality,

Consultant A was retained for the purpose of paying bribes to Indonesian government officials,

including Official | and Official 2, described more fully below.

 
OO

Case 3:13-cr-00212-JBA Bocuments Filed G2/26/15 Page 7 of 35

15. “Consultant B,” an individual whose identity is known to the Grand Jury, was a
consultant who purportedly provided legitimate services on behalf of Alstom, its subsidiaries,
and Marubeni in connection with the bidding of the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects
in Indonesia. In reality, Consultant B was retained for the purpose of paying bribes to officials at
PLN, including Official 2 and Official 3, described more fully below,

The Foreign Officials

16. PLN, the state owned and controlled electricity company in Indonesia, was an
“agency” and “instrumentality” of a foreign government, as those terms are used in the FCPA,
Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-2(h)(2) and 78dd-3(f)(2).

17. “Official 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the Grand Jury, was a
Member of Parliament in Indonesia and had influence over the award of contracts by PLN,
including on the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects.

18. “Official 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the Grand Jury, was a high- ©
ranking official at PLN and had broad decision-making authority and influence over the award of
contracts by PLN, including on the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects.

19. “Official 3,” an individual whose identity is known to the Grand Jury, was an
official at PLN and a high-ranking member of the evaluation committee for the Tarahan Project
and Muara Tawar Projects. Official 3 had broad decision-making authority and influence over
the award of the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects.

20. “Official 4,” an individual whose identity is known to the Grand Jury, was an
official at PLN and a member of the evaluation committee for the Tarahan Project and Muara

Tawar Projects. Official 4 had the ability to influence the award of the Tarahan Project and

Muara Tawar Projects.

 
 

Case 3:15-cr-00212-IBA Document S Filed O2/26/15 Page 8 of 55

21. Official 1, Official 2, Official 3, and Official 4 were each a “foreign official,” as
that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-2(h)(2) and 78dd-
3(f)(2).

Overview of the Bribery Scheme

22. Between 2002 and 2009, Alstom, its subsidiaries, and Marubeni (the
“Consortium”) partnered to bid on and carry out various power projects in Indonesia through
PLN, including the Tarahan Project and the Muara Tawar Projects. The Consortium retained
several consultants, including Consultant A and Consultant B, to assist them in obtaining the
contracts for the power projects in Indonesia, including the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar
Projects. The consultants’ primary purpose was not to provide legitimate consulting services to
the Consortium but was instead to pay bribes to Indonesian officials who had the ability to
influence the award of the contracts.

23. The Consortium first retained Consultant A in connection with the Tarahan
Project in or around late 2002. Consultant A was to receive a commission from the Consortium
based on the overall value that each would receive from the Tarahan Project contract, from
which Consultant A was expected to pay bribes to Indonesian officials. However, through the
course of 2003, MOENAF, SULIANTO, KUSUNOKI, and other executives and employees of
the Consortium came to the conclusion that Consultant A was not effectively bribing key
Indonesian officials. Accordingly, in or around September or October 2003, MOENAF,
SULIANTO, KUSUNOKI, and other executives and employees of the Consortium informed
Consultant A that Consultant A would be responsible only for paying bribes to Official 1 and

that the Consortium would retain another consultant to pay bribes to PLN officials. Shortly

thereafter, the Consortium sent Consultant A amended consulting agreements, reducing the
Case 3:15-cr-00212-IBA Documents Filed Q2/26/15 Page 9 of 35

amount of Consultant A’s commission to reflect Consultant A’s reduced responsibilities.
Around the same time, the Consortium also retained Consultant B to bribe PLN officials in
connection with their efforts to secure the Tarahan Project contract and the Muara Tawar
Projects contracts.

24. The Consortium was ultimately awarded the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar
Project contracts and made payments to Consultants A and B for the purpose of paying
Indonesian government officials, including Official 1, Official 2, Official 3, and Official 4, in
exchange for their assistance in awarding the Tarahan Project and the Muara Tawar Projects
contracts to the Consortium.

The Conspiracy

25. From in or around 2002, and continuing through in or around 2009, in the District
of Connecticut, and elsewhere, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO did willfully, that is,
with the intent to further the objects of the conspiracy, and knowingly conspire, confederate and
agree together and with each other, and with others known and unknown to the Grand Jury, to
commit offenses against the United States, that is:

a. together with domestic concerns and officers, directors, employees, and agents of
domestic concerns, and with others known and unknown to the Grand Jury, to willfully make use
of the mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of
an offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the payment of any money, offer, gift,
promise to give, and authorization of the giving of anything of value to a foreign official and to a
person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money and thing of value would be and had

been offered, given, and promised to a foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and

decisions of such foreign official in his official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do

 
Mase 3:13-cr-O00212-JIBA DBocumrent3S Filed 02/26/15 Page TO of SS

and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing an improper
advantage; and (iv) inducing such foreign official to use his influence with a foreign government
and agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and decisions of such
government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist the domestic concerns in
obtaining and retaining business for and with, and directing business to, the Consortium and
others, in violation of Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(a); and
b. with others known and unknown to the Grand Jury, while in the territory of the
United States, willfully and corruptly to make use of the mails and means and instrumentalities
of interstate commerce and to do any other act in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to
pay, and authorization of the payment of any money, offer, gift, promise to give, and
authorization of the giving of anything of value to a foreign official and to a person, while
knowing that all or a portion of such money and thing of value would be and had been offered,
given, and promised to a foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of
such foreign official in his official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and omit to
do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and
(iv) inducing such foreign official to use his influence with a foreign government and agencies
and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and decisions of such government and
agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist KUSUNOKI, MOENAF , SULIANTO, and the
Consortium and others in obtaining and retaining business for and with, and directing business
to, Consortium and others, in violation of Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-3(a).
Purpose of the Conspiracy
26. The purpose of the conspiracy was to make corrupt payments to a Member of

Parliament in Indonesia, officials at PLN, and other Indonesian officials in order to obtain and

10

 

  
Case 3:15-cr-O0212-IBA DocumentS Filed O2/26/15 Page Tl] of 35

retain contracts to perform power-related services for PLN, including the Tarahan Project and the
Muara Tawar Projects contracts.
Manner and Means of the Conspiracy

27, The manner and means by which KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, SULIANTO, and their
co-conspirators sought to accomplish the purpose of the conspiracy included, among other
things, the following, while in the District of Connecticut and elsewhere:

28, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
discussed in person, via telephone, and via electronic mail (“e-mail”) the need to obtain the
contracts to perform power-related services on the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects.

29. KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
discussed in person, via telephone, and via e-mail making bribe payments to government
officials in Indonesia, including Official 1, Official 2, Official 3, and Official 4, among others, in
order to obtain the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects contracts.

30. KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
offered to pay, promised to pay, and authorized the payment of bribes, directly and indirectly, to
and for the benefit of government officials in Indonesia, including Official 1, Official 2, Official
3, and Official 4, among others, in order to obtain the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects
contracts.

31, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
discussed in person, via telephone, and via e-mail the manner and means by which the bribe

payments were to be paid.

ll
f

Case 3:13-c7r-O0212-JB4 Bocument3 Filed 02/26/15 Page ls of s

tad
Ft

32, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
retained consultants in order to conceal and disguise the payments to foreign officials, including
Official 1, Official 2, Official 3, and Official 4, among others.

33, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
caused bribe payments to be wired from the bank accounts of Alstom Power US, Alstom Prom,
and Marubeni to the bank accounts of Consultant A and Consultant B for the purpose of making
payments to foreign officials, including Official 1, Official 2, Official 3, and Official 4, among
others, in exchange for the officials’ assistance in securing the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar
Projects contracts.

Overt Acts

34, In furtherance of the conspiracy and to achieve the objects thereof, at least one of
the co-conspirators committed or caused to be committed, in the District of Connecticut and
elsewhere, at least one of the following overt acts, among others:! —

Obtaining and Retaining the Tarahan Project and Muara Tawar Projects Contracts

35. On or about February 27, 2002, SULIANTO sent an e-mail to Rothschild, stating,
“Approaching [Official 1] still in the stages to motivate him be in our loop, if he was able to
meet [Official 2] last week end just matter of introducing of himself that he will be as our
sponsor. We will identify when he will be seriously to meet [Official 2] to specific discussion
for Tarahan, before it happen we should provide him more detail info regarding [a competitor of
Power Company].”

36. On or about June 14, 2002, Rothschild sent an e-mail to SULIANTO, copying

MOENAF, with the subject line reading the first name of Official 1, and stating, “Pls start the

 

All quotations are as drafted.

12

 
Case 3:23-cr-d0212-IBA DocumentS Filed O2/e6/5

Ft
“
oy
Cc
ih
eta
Lo
oo
Ob
Ft

paper work for using [Official 1°s] representative company to assist in the BD [business
development] effort. If you need help with this let me know soon.”

37, On or about August 8, 2002, SULIANTO sent an e-mail to Rothschild, to which
he attached a document explaining, among other things, that Official 1 was a “[kJey legislator”
and “Vice chairman of [the] Parliament commission 8 dedicated for Power & Energy” who had
“Telasy direct access personally to PLN Board” and who could exert “direct influence to PLN
([Official 2] and [another official])” and “utiliz[e] his comission 8 forum to influence PLN
Board” and Ministries.

38. On or about August 22, 2002, MOENAF sent an e-mail to Hoskins, Pierucci, and
Rothschild, stating, “Referring to our discussion of 8-August-2002, it is now 2 weeks away from
the tender submission date. Your position concerning the representation is urgently needed,
Currently, we are working with [Official 2] and [Official 3] in PLN on our ‘competition’,
nevertheless, we would need a stronger push now. Appreciate your decision a.s.a.p.”

39. On or about August 26, 2002, Rothschild sent an e-mail to KUSUNOKI
discussing that Pomponi would be replacing Rothschild on the Tarahan Project, in which
Rothschild stated, “Please rest assured that Alstom still considers this project most important and
is pursuing it most aggressively....I have brefed [Pomponi] on the specific Tarahan issues, the
bidding history, arrangement with Marubeni and [Alstom Indonesia], and also the arrangement
with [Official 1]. Please feel confident in discussing these with Bill [Pomponi].”

40. On or about August 28, 2002, Pierucci responded to the e-mail from MOENAF
referenced in Paragraph 38 above, and stated, “Please go ahead and finalise the consultancy

agreement. Please send me the key data so that I can approve it officially.”

13

 

 
Case 2:28-cr-00212-IBA DocumentS Filed O2/26/15 Page 14 of 35

41. On or about August 28, 2002, Rothschild sent an e-mail to MOENAF,
SULIANTO, Pierucci, and Pomponi, in response to Pierucci’s e-mail referenced in Paragraph 40
above, and stated, “Regarding [Pierucci’s] below message, Pls do not finalize anything yet with
the Rep. I spoke with Fred [Pierucci] right after he sent the note and we have concerns about 1)
politician vs. businessman, 2) upfront expenses, 3) right person vs. another choice. Part of this
comes from discussions from Marubeni....We would like to discuss with you on Friday evening
Jkt time.”

42. On or about September 4, 2002, MOENAF sent an e-mail to Rothschild, copying
Pierucci, in which MOENAF stated, “[W]e have met [Official 1] to confirm whether he is
comfortable with your suggested approach on Representation issue (through [Consultant
A])....Again, from my point of view whichever approach taken on the Representation issue,
must assure the coverage of Palembang [the city in Indonesia where the evaluation committee
was located]. You need to be confident that [Consultant A] could do this since he — being the
one who can make the ‘commitment’ — will have to take over the lead role from us in
Palembang.”

43. In or around late 2002, the Consortium retained Consultant A, agreeing to pay
Consultant A three percent of the Tarahan Project contract value as a commission.

44. On or about December 3, 2002, MOENAF sent an e-mail to Hoskins discussing
one of the Muara Tawar Projects, including whether to retain Consultant A in connection with
that Muara Tawar Project, stating, “[Official 1] is a member of INDONESIA Parliament,
precisely he is the Vice Chairman of Commission VIII, a commission in charge of handling
Power issues..,.Besides his function in the Parliament, he has long well established relationship

with [Official 2] (PLN President Director), As a Vice Chairman of Commission VIII he

 
Case 223-cr-00212-IBA DBocumentS Filed 02/26/15 Page 15 of 35

certainly have an influence in PLN. He is not an agent but one of the players....[L]ooking in to
[Consultant A’s] performance in Tarahan, we need to think twice prior taking him into
consideration..,.As the [Tarahan] project proceed, it shown that [Consultant A] has been unable
to fulfil his tasks and our expectation, he has no grip on PLN Tender team at all. Basically, his
function is more or less similar to cashier which I feel we pay too much....As you know, I have
set an appointment to meet [Official 2] tomorrow moming to find out who would be his
recommended agent, the one that PLN can really feel comfortable with.”

45. On or about December 3, 2002, Hoskins sent an e-mail to an executive at Alstom,
stating, “Will call you after I get feedback from Reza [MOENAF] on his meeting tomorrow with
[Official 2]. At this stage Reza [MOENAF] does not support appointment of [Consultant A] for
MT [Muara Tawar] but believes [Official 1] to be an important part of the jigsaw.”

46. On or about December 4, 2002, Hoskins forwarded to MOENAF the e-mail
described in Paragraph 45 above, stating, “As discussed.”

47. On or about January 3, 2003, an executive at Alstom Prom sent an e-mail to
Hoskins, copying another Alstom Prom employee, regarding the approval of the consultancy
agreement with Consultant A, stating, “[Consultant A] sent me the completed ‘Agent Profile’ for
his very small company in Baltimore, Maryland, with branch office in Washington....1
understand, that the Tarahan job is boiler supply from the US to Indonesia. As I said before, it
would make more sens[e] to have an agent in Indonesia, where [Consultant A’s] company has
obviously an office. As you know, we do not like to have a US domiciliated company as a
consultant, with payment in the US, and most probably in USD.”

48. On or about January 15, 2003, Hoskins responded to the e-mail referenced in

Paragraph 47 above, stating, “I talked to Reza [MOENAF] and his financial controller [] on this

15
Case 223-cr-00212-IBA DBocumentS Filed Of/26/15 Page 16 of 35

subject to establish whether they could implement an agreement locally in Indonesia. They were
uneasy about dealing with a local company but thought an arrangement with Singapore may
work. Reza is going to check with [Consultant A] to see if he has a company in Singapore.”

49, On or about June 5, 2003, Alstom Employee A sent an e-mail to SULIANTO
regarding one of the Muara Tawar Projects and discussing various agents that Alstom could
retain in connection with the project, stating, “[Consultant B] basically works for [Official 2].”

50. On or about August 12, 2003, Consultant A sent an e-mail to Pierucci about
another upcoming power project with PLN (Labuan Angin), stating, “PLN people are upset with
us that we told them we only need marginal support from them and now putting everything on,
them. They are comparing the success fee for Tarahan and Labuan Angin and asking why they
are so much different.”

51. On or about September 11, 2003, Alstom Employee A sent an e-mail to
KUSUNOKI, copying SULIANTO, regarding one of the Muara Tawar Projects with the subject
“Client Mapping,” and stating, “Attached is some analysis as we spoke about last week....Please
delete Email after you print.” The e-mail attached a spreadsheet titled, “Friend Analysis,” which
listed various government officials and the connections that Consultant B and another consultant
had to those officials, including that Consultant B had the “Bank account for [a high-level
executive in the Minister of Mines and Energy].”

52. On or about September 16, 2003, KUSUNOKI sent an e-mail to Pierucci and
Pomponi, copying MOENAF, SULIANTO, and other employees of Marubeni and Alstom Power
US, stating that the PLN evaluation team had provided negative feedback on the Tarahan Project
and that, “Yesterday, before Mr. Pomponi’s leaving, we had wrap up meeting among [Alstom

Power US, Alstom Indonesia, Marubeni] and our agent. Most of attendee except [Marubeni],

 

 
Case 223-cr-00212-IBA DBocumentS Filed Of/26/15 Page 17 of 35

had considered the current movements are under well controllable. There was no actual clear
evidence to prove our advantageous or our controllable situation at all.”

$3. On or about September 16, 2003, Pierucci forwarded the e-mail referenced in
Paragraph 52 above to Pomponi and Consultant A, copying MOENAF, SULIANTO, and other
employees of Alstom, and stated, “When we spoke on Friday, you both told me that everything

was under control in the evaluation ... . Now, if the infos below are correct, we are not only

below infos are correct and give me by tomorrow a plan to recover this. WE CAN NOT LOOSE
THIS PROJECT!”

54. On or about September 18, 2003, MOENAF forwarded an e-mail to Hoskins
describing a meeting between two Alstom employees, two Marubeni employees, and two PLN
officials, including Official 4, regarding the Tarahan Project that stated, “PLN has expressed
their concerns over our ‘agent’. They did not like the approach made by the agent. More

tly, they concern whether they can trust on the agent or not in regards to ‘rewards’ issue.

    

They concern that if we have won the job, whether their rewards will still be satisfactory or this
agent only give them pocket money and disappear. Nothing has been shown by the agent that
the agent is willing to spend money.” (Emphasis in original).

55. On or about September 19, 2003, KUSUNOKI sent an e-mail to Alstom
Employee A regarding the Tarahan Project and one of the Muara Tawar Projects, stating,
“According to Mr. Reza [MOENAF], [Official 2] is upset about two things relating to my
yesterday’s visit (Marubeni/Alstom matter)....1 am very clear that we are now required by

[Official 2] to select [Consultant B] as sole agent of [the Muara Tawar Project].”

17

 
Case 3:23-c7r-G0212-IB4 DocumentS Filed 02/26/45 Page 18 af 35
Gg

56. On or about September 19, 2003, Alstom Employee A forwarded to Hoskins the
e-mail referenced in Paragraph 55 above, stating, “Interesting reading below. [Official 2] seems
to had made a clear choice and that is that we have to go with [Consultant B].”

57. On or about September 25, 2003, an Alstom employee sent an e-mail to Pierucci
and Pomponi, copying Hoskins and blind copying MOENAF, stating, “Last evening 9/24/03,
Marubeni’s [two Marubeni employees] and J, Kusunoki asked to alert with Alstom’s R. Moenaf,
E. Sulianto & [an Alstom Power US employee]. The subject of discussion was the increasingly
negative direction of the [Tarahan] project’s evaluation and report to PLN board of
Dirctors...coupled with the recent information that the key ([Official 2]) to the project’s success
is not pleased with our agent’s commitment and actions taken this far. Marubeni made clear
their position that the consortium should take immediate measures to terminate our agreement
with [Consultant A], negotiate and settlement and engage a new representative to tun the
situation around.”

58. On or about September 25, 2003, KUSUNOKI sent an e-mail to MOENAF,
SULIANTO, Pierucci, Pomponi, and another Alstom employee, copying other employees from
Marubeni, stating, “As you can understand, unfortunately our agent almost did not execute his
function at all, so far. In case we don’t take immediate action now now, we don’t have any
chance to get this project forever. We shall not wait for coming of decision maker any more.
Please direct your opinion to your Representative today.”

59. In or around late September 2003, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, SULIANTO,
Hoskins, Pierucci, and other employees of the Consortium told Consultant A at a meeting in
Indonesia that: (i) they were going to retain another consultant to pay bribes to officials at PLN

in connection with the Tarahan Project; (ii) Consultant A needed to pay bribes only to Official 1;

18

 

Bn
Case 2:23-cr-00212-IBA Documents Filed O2/26/15 Page 19 of 35

and (iii) Consultant A’s commission, therefore, would be cut from three percent of the total value
of the contract to one percent.

60. On or about September 30, 2003, MOENAF sent an e-mail to Hoskins, stating,
“Eko [SULIANTO] also informed me there has been discussion between Fred [Pierucci],
Marubeni and [Consultant A] yesterday where [Consultant A] committed to convince [Official 1]
that ‘one’ is enough.”

61, On or about October 1, 2003, KUSUNOKI sent a letter to Consultant B regarding
the Tarahan Project, and stated, “With reference to our discussion regarding the captioned
project, we are pleased to confirm the agreement between us. In the event that we are successful,
we confirm that we will pay a total of two percent (2%) of the contract price (not including
VAT) for our scope of work to you for the various services you are providing. The details of this
agreement will be formalized in a Service Agreement.”

62. In or around October 2003, MOENAF, SULIANTO, Hoskins, Pierucci, and other
employees of Alstom sent an amended consulting agreement to Consultant A in connection with
the Tarahan Project reflecting the reduced commission rate of one percent.

63. On or about October 8, 2003, Consultant A sent an e-mail to Pierucci stating,
“The contract is basically fine. [Official 1] is trying to verify that in case he has to do horse
trading with [another official], the expenses are not coming from my contract but he has not
managed to talk to [Official 2] directly, in part because he does not want to address the issue
directly....Finally, I have not been able to get a contract out of Marubeni even though they keep
saying there is no problem. They also told [Official 2] that they do not have a firm commitment
to me yet and that has not sat well with [Official 1]. So please give them a nodge. Hopefully we

can sign both contracts at the same time.”

19

 
Case 2:28-cr-00212-IBA DocumentS Filed O2/26/15 Page 20 of 35

64. On or about October 13, 2003, Hoskins sent a letter to Consultant B regarding the
Tarahan Project, and stated, “Further to our discussion on the above project last Saturday, I am
pleased to confirm the agreement between us relating to the Tarahan project. In the event that
we are successful I confirm that Alstom will pay a total of 2% of the contract price for its scope
of work (less fees and VAT) to you for the advisory and marketing service you are providing.”

65. On or about December 9, 2003, Marubeni and Consultant A entered into a
consulting agreement in connection with the Tarahan Project reflecting a commission rate of one
percent.

66. On or about December 15, 2003, Hoskins sent a letter to Consultant B, stating,
“Further to the recent meetings between us and subsequent discussions I am now pleased to
confirm the arragments relating to the [Muara Tawar] project.”

67. On or about February 23, 2004, Pomponi sent an e-mail to KUSUNOKI,
SULIANTO, and another Alstom employee, copying MOENAF, stating, “Understand that
Mitsubishi has retained some lobbyist from the government (higher/more power than [another
foreign official’s] position to support their efforts on [the Tarahan Project]. Pls urgently check
this out and have [Consultant B] re-evaluate our support to PLN.”

68. On or about March 3, 2004, MOENAF sent an e-mail to Hoskins, stating, “Last
Monday we sent Tarahan CA [consultancy agreement] to [Consultant B], he immediately feel
cornered after reading the ToP [terms of payment] which said ‘prorata’. When I talked to him on
the phone I said that I will look at it and I thought it should not be that bad. I then looked into

Tarahan ToP (see attached) and realise that the project payment is spread over 3.5 year! You

would understand why he is worry, he is willing to pre-finance his scope, fulfilling his

 
 

Case 2:23-cr-00212-IBA DocumentS Filed O2/26/15 Page 21 of 35

commitment up-front (prior he get paid) to get the right ‘influence’, but certainly not waiting 2 to
3 years to get paid while most of his scope is completed in the beginning.”

69. On or about March 10, 2004, Pomponi sent an e-mail to Hoskins, Pierucci, and
others, stating, “I have Reza [MOENAF] out in Indonesia negotiating the CA Terms with
[Consultant B]. As you know, the Tarahan estimate can not tolerate such advance payments and
I’m not sure how we can accommodate this.”

70. On or about March 18, 2004, Hoskins responded to the e-mail from Pomponi
referenced in Paragraph 69 above, stating, “Not sure where we are with this but for your info
[Consultant B] is also requesting tougher terms on other projects at the moment. I cannot
comment on your cash flow but my advice in this instance is to go with the latest
recommendation . . . [Consultant B] has a lot of work to do to support us in negotiation and he
(and others) are slightly negative at the moment on Alstom support.”

71. On or about March 19, 2004, Consultant A sent an e-mail to Pierucci, stating, “I
am back from Indonesia. I have mentioned the following to Bill [Pomponi]. But it is important
that you also are aware of it. We need a very strong support from [Official 2] to counter
Mitsubishi’s lobbeying against us. I am not conviced that he is happy enough with us to provide
the support. [Official 1] is also unhappy because he thinks Alstom has not firmly indicated its
support for [Official 2]. Please verify that we have talked to [Official 2].”

72, On or about March 20, 2004, Pierucci forwarded to MOENAF and Hoskins,
copying Pomponi, the e-mail from Consultant A referenced in Paragraph 71 above, and stated,
“See attached. Please check this again urgently with [Consultant B].”

73, On or about March 22, 2004, MOENAF sent an e-mail to Pierucci, copying

Hoskins and Pomponi, in response to the e-mail referenced in Paragraph 72 above, stating, “This

21

 
Case 3:23-cr-G0212-JBA DocumentS Filed 02/26/15 Page 22 of 35

is a known situation and it is true that [Official 2] slowing down (no happy) in supporting
Alstom. I have mentioned this in my earlier note to Lawrence [Hoskins]. But what would you
expect with 2-3%, and ‘prorate’ ToP [terms of payment]. He shook his head when he heard that
the ToP is spread in three and half year. Lets ask our self what have we done which showed our
commitment to him? Talking! that is what he said to me. Be aware [Official 2’s] reaction on
Tarahan is impacting Alstom’s other project [Muara Tawar] too.”

74, On or about March 22, 2004, Pomponi sent an e-mail to Hoskins, stating, “I have
seen your response and wish to offer the following as our compromise to [Consultant B’s]
proposal: Instead of this could we suggest something like:

-40% at receipt by ALSTOM of the down payment
-Additional 40% at receipt by ALSTOM at month 12
-Additional 15% at receipt by ALSTOM at month 18
-Last 5% at the end of the contractual obligations
Pls.advise if these you think would be acceptable?? What are your terms on Muara Tuar??”

75. On or about March 22, 2004, Pomponi sent an e-mail to KUSUNOKI, copying
Pierucci and another Marubeni employee, stating, “I am trying to get agreement with [Consultant
B] but he’s objecting strongly and asking for ‘front-end’ payments which affect our cash flow. I
consider both you and I as having similar payment schemes for (Consultant B], therefore pls
share with me your proposal and idea. Do you have agreement yet with [Consultant B] for your
portion?? Pls consider this as an urgent request and respond at your most earliest convenience.”

76, On or about March 23, 2004, KUSUNOKI responded to the e-mail referenced in

Paragraph 75 above, stating, “Regarding payment terms and conditions for [Consultant B], I

have not yet discussed in detail with [Consultant B] during your absence from Indonesia...1 think

 
 

Case 213-cr-00212-JIB4A Document? Filed O2/2a/15 Page 23 of 35

some consistency of response to [Consultant B] shall be necessary to get their compromise and
to finalize the issues.”

77. On or about March 30, 2004, Hoskins sent an e-mail to Pierucci and Pomponi,
stating, “To clear up any confusion. You proposed an 18 month schedule but it will not fly in
Indonesia at this time. In my discussion with Fred [Pierucci] and mails as per attached |
recommended that we go with the latest proposal: 40/35/20/5. Marubeni wait for us and will
follow suit. We are all agreed the terms are lousy but there is no choice. Reza [MOENAF] sees
[Official 2] tomorrow and needs to confirm this position. Can you give him the all clear today?”

78. On or about March 30, 2004, Pomponi sent an e-mail in response to the e-mail
from Hoskins described in Paragraph 77 above, stating, “Approval has just come regarding the
terms (40/35/20/S). Yes, I agree they are lousy terms but as you and I talked last week, we both
believe we have no choice. I will send a separate message to Reza [MOENAF], Eko
[SULIANTO], Kusunoki, and [another Marubeni employee] regarding the T/P to insure we get
[Consultant B’s] signature and follow-up action with our friends. A note from you as well to
Kusunoki and [the other Marubeni employee] would be helpful given [Marubeni’s] thus far
objections to such ‘front-end’ loading of payments.”

79. On or about March 30, 2004, Pomponi sent an e-mail to KUSUNOKI, copying
MOENAF, Hoskins, Pierucci, and another Marubeni employee, stating, “As we discussed last
week by telephone, [Consultant B] is requiring 95% payment within the first 12 months of the
contract. I stated that this was a problem for ALSTOM however after speaking with Reza
Moenaf and Lawrence Hoskins, I am now convinced that this mode of payment is necessary for
the continuation of [Consultant B’s] effectiveness....As mentioned by you last week, [Marubeni]

confirmed to follow ALSTOM’s actions and conclusions for the [Consultant B] Agreement.”

 
 

 

Mase 3:13-cr-00212-JBA DBocumrent3S Filed 02/26/15 Page 24 of SS

80. On or about March 30, 2004, KUSUNOKI responded to the e-mail from Pomponi
referenced in Paragraph 79 above, stating, “I understand. We follow you. I will try to finalize
the agreement at earliest possible time.”

81. On or about March 30, 2004, Pomponi sent an e-mail to MOENAF, Hoskins, and
Pierucci, stating, “Approval...has finally been received this morning authorizing the requested
Terms of Payment. Pls proceed with this ASAP to obtain the CA signing by [Consultant B] in
order for [Consultant B’s] effectiveness to continue.”

82. On or about March 31, 2004, MOENAF responded to the e-mail from Pomponi
referenced in Paragraph 81 above, stating, “I will mentioned our position to [Official 2] and
[Consultant B] this afternoon. Furthermore I would suggest you to contact [the employee at
Power Company Switzerland responsible for consultancy agreements] with a request to make the
necessary CA changes (ToP) and ask her to send me the revised CA asap. Once the revised
agreement arrived I will obtain [Consultant B’s] signature. Mean while I will give [Official
2]/[Consultant B] my word.”

83. On or about April 5, 2004, MOENAF sent an e-mail to Hoskins, copying
SULIANTO, Pierucci, and Alstom Employee A regarding the Tarahan Project and one of the
Muara Tawar Projects, stating, “According to [Official 2] Alstom did not show enough its
‘commitment’ to PLN....[Official 2] also asked me whether for PLN Alstom could use one
representative (agent), rather than 2 or 3. According to [Official 2] in Labuan Angin [Consultant
A] was involved. [Official 2] thought he made to Fred [Pierucci] and you clear [Consultant A]
was not the right person.”

84. On or about November 4, 2004, Alstom Employee A sent an e-mail to MOENAF,

SULIANTO, and other Alstom employees regarding one of the Muara Tawar Projects, stating,

24

  
Case 2:23-cr-O0212-IBA Documents Filed O2/26/15 Page 25 of 35

“[W]e need a person with PLN evaluation team loyal to us and attitude of a street fighter for our
interest. [Muara Tawar Project] we have [Official 4] — he helped us in the Tarahan processing
and helped us to get the deal....He needs to be convinced that he is fighting for the right cause.
We need to do a sales job on him.”

85. On or about July 12, 2005, SULIANTO sent an e-mail to MOENAF, Alstom
Employee A, and another Alstom employee regarding one of the Muara Tawar Projects, stating,
“We have built relationship with [Official 4] since the Tarahan [] project. In this [Muara Tawar
Project], we were among those who promoted [Official 4] so that he can become a member of
the [Muara Tawar Project] procurement team....Looking at this fact, [Official 4] is of critical
importance to us as our vehicle....[Official 4] must be ensured that his effort will be worth his
while....We need to set up additional CA [consultancy agreement], separate from the basic CA
currently in place, to cover [Official 4] and his people, as our ammunition to approach working
level which is currently untouched by our agent.”

86. On or about December 8, 2005, after the Consortium was awarded the Tarahan
Project contract, Consultant A sent an e-mail to Pomponi, stating, “Good morning from Jakarta.
[Official 4] keep contacting me and asking for ...support. He has not been contacted by you or
your local team. Could you please give him a call and let him know | have nothing to do with
him. It is really important.” (Ellipses in original).

87, On or about December 9, 2005, Pomponi forwarded to MOENAF and
SULIANTO, copying Pierucci, the e-mail from Consultant A referenced in Paragraph 86 above,
and stated, “This has gone on way too long. Please take care of this. Please advise when this is
completed and settled. As you are fully aware, [Consultant A] has nothing to do with PLN.

There was a complete and clear division of responsibility.”

25

 
Mase 3:13-cr-O00212-JIBA DBocument3S Filed 02/26/15 Page 26 of SS

88. On or about September 22, 2006, Alstom Employee A sent an e-mail to another
Alstom employee with the subject, “Tarahan — commitment fell thru the cracks,” stating, “One of
the engineering chaps [Official 4] who had a lot of influence on the outcome of the Tarahan has
not been fully compensated on the Tarahan project. Now he is involved in [the Maura Tawar
Project] and keeps reminding the boys that we owe him something. This issue needs to be sorted
out ASAP to ensure proper support on [the Muara Tawar Project]. According to Eko
[SULIANTO], [Consultant B] has honored his pro rata portion of the commitment. The original
(‘other’) Agent did not. I don’t know if the other guy has received any consulting fees. Would
you be able to check that out with Prom? If not then we should block the payments until he takes
care of the guy.”

Payments from Alstom to Consultant A to Bribe Official ]

89. On or about November 16, 2005, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant A, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $200,064 from the company’s bank account in New York to Consultant
A’s bank account in Maryland for the purpose of paying bribes to Official 1.

90. On or about January 4, 2006, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant A, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $200,064 from the company’s bank account in New York to Consultant
A’s bank account in Maryland for the purpose of paying bribes to Official 1.

91. On or about March 7, 2007, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant A, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $200,064 from the company’s bank account in New York to Consultant

A’s bank account in Maryland for the purpose of paying bribes to Official 1.

26

 
|

Case 3:23-cr-O0212-JBA DocumentS Filed 02/26/15 Page 27 of 35

92. On or about October 5, 2009, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant A, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $66,688 from the company’s bank account in New York to Consultant
A’s bank account in Maryland for the purpose of paying bribes to Official 1.

Payments from Marubeni to Consultant A to Bribe Official ]

93. On or about June 30, 2005, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant A, Marubeni caused a wire transfer in the amount of $151,781.70
from its bank account in New York to Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland for the purpose
of paying bribes to Official 1.

94. On or about December 28, 2005, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant A, Marubeni caused a wire transfer in the amount of $154,462.30
from its bank account in New York to Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland for the purpose
of paying bribes to Official 1.

95. On or about November 14, 2008, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant A, Marubeni caused a wire transfer in the amount of $51,549.79
from its bank account in New York to Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland for the purpose
of paying bribes to Official 1.

Payments from Alstom to Consultant B to Bribe Officials at PLN

96. On or about July 20, 2005, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant B, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $418,906 from the company’s bank account in New York to Alstom
Prom’s bank account in Zurich, Switzerland, which amount was transferred by Alstom Prom to

Consultant B’s bank account in Singapore for the purpose of paying bribes to officials at PLN.

 
Case 2:28-cr-00212-IBA Documents Filed O2/26/15 Page 28 of 35

97. On or about July 26, 2005, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant B, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $114,598 from the company’s bank account in New York to Alstom
Prom’s bank account in Zurich, Switzerland, which amount was transferred by Alstom Prom to
Consultant B’s bank account in Singapore for the purpose of paying bribes to officials at PLN.

98. On or about March 28, 2006, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant B, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $466,816 from the company’s bank account in New York to Alstom
Prom’s bank account in Zurich, Switzerland, which amount was transferred by Alstom Prom to
Consultant B’s bank account in Singapore for the purpose of paying bribes to officials at PLN.

99. On or about December 6, 2006, as a result of an agreement reached between co-
conspirators and Consultant B, Alstom Power US in Windsor, Connecticut, caused a wire
transfer in the amount of $266,752 from the company’s bank account in New York to Alstom
Prom’s bank account in Zurich, Switzerland, which amount was transferred by Alstom Prom to
Consultant B’s bank account in Singapore for the purpose of paying bribes to officials at PLN.

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.

COUNTS TWO THROUGH FIVE
(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)

100. Paragraphs 1 through 24 and 26 through 99 are realleged and incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

101. On or about the dates set forth below, in the District of Connecticut and
elsewhere, KUSUNOK], being an agent of a domestic concern, did willfully use and cause to be
used, and did aid and abet the use of, the mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate

commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the
ptly Pp pay

28

 
 

 

Case 3:13-cr-00212-JB4 Docurent3S Filed O2/26/15 Page 29 af 35

payment of money, offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of the giving of anything of
value to a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money and
thing of value would be and had been offered, given, and promised to a foreign official, for
purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign official in his official capacity; (ii)
inducing such foreign official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such
official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and (iv) inducing such foreign official to use his
influence with a foreign government and agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and
influence acts and decisions of such government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to
assist the domestic concerns in obtaining and retaining business for and with, and directing

business to, Consortium and others, as follows:

 

 

COUNT DATE MEANS AND INSTRUMENTALITIES OF
INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE
Two 11/16/2005 | Employees of Power Company Connecticut, while in

Connecticut, caused a wire transfer in the amount of
$200,064 from the company’s bank account in New York to
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland.

 

Three 1/4/2006 Employees of Power Company Connecticut, while in
Connecticut, caused a wire transfer in the amount of
$200,064 from the company’s bank account in New York to
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland.

 

Four 3/28/2006 | Employees of Power Company Connecticut, while in
Connecticut, caused a wire transfer in the amount of
$466,816 from the company’s bank account in New York to
Power Company Switzerland’s bank account in Zurich,
Switzerland, which amount was transferred by Power
Company Switzerland to Consultant B’s bank account in
Singapore.

 

 

 

 

 

29

 

 
On
Case 3:15-cr-O0212-IBA DocumentS Filed O2/26/15 Page 30 of 35

 

 

COUNT DATE MEANS AND INSTRUMENTALITIES OF
INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE
Five 12/6/2006 | Employees of Power Company Connecticut, while in

Connecticut, caused a wire transfer in the amount of
$266,752 from the company’s bank account in New York to
Power Company Switzerland’s bank account in Zurich,
Switzerland, which amount was transferred by Power
Company Switzerland to Consultant B’s bank account in
Singapore.

 

 

 

 

 

All in violation of Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2, and Title 18, United

States Code, Section 2.

COUNTS SIX THROUGH SEVEN
(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)

102. Paragraphs 1 through 24 and 26 through 99 are realleged and incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

103. On or about the dates set forth below, in the District of Connecticut and
elsewhere, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, being agents of a domestic concern, did
willfully use and cause to be used, and did aid and abet the use of, the mails and means and
instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to
pay, and authorization of the payment of money, offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of
the giving of anything of value to a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that all or a
portion of such money and thing of value would be and had been offered, given, and promised to
a foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign official in his
official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the
lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and (iv) inducing such foreign

official to use his influence with a foreign government and agencies and instrumentalities thereof

30
 

 

Mase 313-cr-00212-JIBA DBocurentS Filed 02/26/15 Page Si of SS

to affect and influence acts and decisions of such government and agencies and instrumentalities

>

in order to assist the domestic concerns in obtaining and retaining business for and with, and

directing business to, Consortium and others, as follows:

 

 

COUNT DATE MEANS AND INSTRUMENTALITIES OF
INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE
Six 3/7/2007 Employees of Power Company Connecticut, while in

Connecticut, caused a wire transfer in the amount of
$200,064 from the company’s bank account in New York to
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland.

 

Seven 10/5/2009 | Employees of Power Company Connecticut, while in
Connecticut, caused a wire transfer in the amount of $66,688
from the company’s bank account in New York to
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland.

 

 

 

 

 

All in violation of Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2, and Title 18, United

States Code, Section 2.

COUNT EIGHT
(Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering)

104. Paragraphs 1 through 24 and 26 through 99 are realleged and incorporated by
reference as though fully set forth herein.

105. From in or around 2002, and continuing through in or around 2009, in the District
of Connecticut and elsewhere, KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO did willfully, that is,
with the intent to further the objects of the conspiracy, and knowingly combine, conspire,
confederate and agree together and with each other, and with others known and unknown to the
Grand Jury, to commit offenses under Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956 and 1957,
namely:

a. to knowingly transport, transmit and transfer monetary instruments and
funds from a place in the United States to and through a place outside the

31

 
: {
Case 223-cr-00212-IBA DBocumentS Filed Of/26/15 Page 32 of 35

United States, with the intent to promote the carrying on of a specified
unlawful activity, namely, bribery of a foreign official, a felony violation
of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2, in violation of
Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(a)(2)(A); and

b. to engage in a monetary transaction by, through and to a financial
institution, in and affecting interstate and foreign commerce, in criminally
derived property that was of a value greater than $10,000.00, that is, the
deposit, withdrawal, transfer and exchange of United States currency,
funds and monetary instruments, such property having been derived from
specified unlawful activity, namely, bribery of a foreign official, a felony
violation of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2, in
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1957.

Manner and Means of the Conspiracy

106. The manner and means by which KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, SULIANTO, and their
co-conspirators sought to accomplish the purpose of the conspiracy included, among other
things, the following, while in the District of Connecticut and elsewhere:

107. KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
discussed in person, via telephone, and via e-mail the instructions for sending money to
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland.

108. KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
directed the wire transfer of, and caused to be wired, money from Alstom Power US’s and
Marubeni’s bank accounts in New York to Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland for the
purpose of concealing and disguising the bribe payments to Official 1.

109, | Consultant A took a portion of the money paid to Consultant A’s bank account in

Maryland and engaged in monetary transactions designed to conceal the source of the moneys

and the fact that they were bribes to Official 1.

 
Case 223-cr-00212-IBA DBocumentS Filed Of/26/15 Page 33 of 35

110. Consultant A took a portion of the money paid to Consultant A’s bank account in
Maryland and engaged in monetary transfers designed to promote the payment of bribes through
international monetary transfers for the benefit of Official 1.

111. Consultant A took a portion of the money paid to Consultant A’s bank account in
Maryland and engaged in monetary transactions of a value greater than $10,000 using criminally
derived property.

112. KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO, together with other co-conspirators,
directed the wire transfer of, and caused to be wired, money from Alstom Prom’s and
Marubeni’s bank accounts to Consultant B’s bank account for the purpose of concealing and
disguising the bribe payments to foreign officials at PLN, including Official 2 and Official 3,
among others.

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h).

COUNTS NINE THROUGH ELEVEN
(Money Laundering)

113. Paragraphs 1 through 24, 26 through 99, and 106 through 112 are realleged and
incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein.

114, On or about the dates set forth below, in the District of Connecticut and
elsewhere, KUSUNOKI did knowingly transport, transmit, and transfer, and aid, abet, and cause
others to transport, transmit, and transfer, and attempt to transport, transmit, and transfer the
following monetary instruments and funds from a place in the United States, namely Maryland,
to a place outside the United States, namely Indonesia, intending that each of the transactions, in

whole and in part, promote the carrying on of specified unlawful activity, that is, a felony

33

 
Case 2:28-cr-00212-IBA Documents Filed O2/26/15 Page 34 of 35

violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2, as

follows:

 

COUNT DATE MONETARY TRANSACTION

 

Nine 12/14/2005 Wire transfer in the amount of $100,000 from
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland to a bank
account in Indonesia for the purpose of paying
Official 1 to promote the carrying on of the bribery
scheme.

 

Ten 3/1/2006 Wire transfer in the amount of $100,000 from
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland to a bank
account in Indonesia for the purpose of paying
Official 1 to promote the carrying on of the bribery
scheme.

 

Eleven 8/8/2006 Wire transfer in the amount of $80,000 from
Consultant A’s bank account in Maryland to a bank
account in Indonesia for the purpose of paying
Official 1 to promote the carrying on of the bribery
scheme.

 

 

 

 

 

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956(a)(2)(A) and 2.

COUNT TWELVE
(Money Laundering)

115. Paragraphs | through 24, 26 through 99, and 106 through 112 are realleged and
incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein.

116. On or about March 9, 2007, in the District of Connecticut and elsewhere,
KUSUNOKI, MOENAF, and SULIANTO did knowingly transport, transmit, and transfer, and
aid, abet, and cause others to transport, transmit, and transfer, and attempt to transport, transmit,
and transfer the following monetary instruments and funds from a place in the United States,

namely Maryland, to a place outside the United States, namely Indonesia, intending that each of

34

 
Case 3:iS-cr-O0212-JBA OGocurnent3 Filed 0

&

Page 35 of 35

the transactions, in whole and in part, promote the carrying on of specified unlawful activity, that
is, a felony violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Title 15, United States Code, Section
78dd-2, to wit, a wire transfer in the amount of $80,000 from Consultant A’s bank account in
Maryland to a bank account in Indonesia for the purpose of paying Official 1 to promote the
carrying on of the bribery scheme.

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956(a)(2)(A) and 2.

 

 

A TRUE BILL
tr *
WSf ee
FORERSON
“

Mukut f- Kat lh. fee thle. COO yen
MICHAEL J. GUSTAFSON KATHLEEN MCGOVERN
FIRST ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY SENIOR DEPUTY CHIEF, FRAUD SECTION
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT CRIMINAL DIVISION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Qa Lhethleu—

DAVID E, NOVICK DANTEL S. KAHN
ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY ASSISTANT CHIEF

 

35

 
