 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSI4¢

 

 

 

 

 

)
In the Matter of: ) Proceedings Clerk
) 1:43 pm, May 14, 2015
DOUBLE EAGLE ENTERPRISES, LLC, ) \ p ” yy,
DOUBLE EAGLE METALS, and ) CFTC Docket No, 15-23
ERIC ARLT, )
)
Respondents, )
)

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTION 6(c) AND 6(d) OF
THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING FINDINGS,
AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I,

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”) has reason to
believe that during the period between July 2011 through May 2013 (the “relevant period”),
Double Eagle Enterprises, LLC and Double Eagle Metals (collectively “Double Eagle”) and their
controlling person, Eric Arlt (“Arlt”) (collectively, “Respondents”), violated Sections 4(a) and
Ad(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 6(a) and 6d(a)(1) (2012).
Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondents
engaged in the violations set forth herein, and to determine whether any order should be issued
imposing remedial sanctions.

I.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings and conclusions herein, Respondents consent
to the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and 6(d) of the

 
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order’’) and
acknowledge service of this Order. '

Il.
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

During the relevant period, Respondents violated Sections 4(a) and 4d(a)(1) of the Act by
offering to enter into, entering into, confirming the execution of, and conducting an office and
business in the United States for the purpose of soliciting, accepting orders for, and otherwise
dealing in illegal, off-exchange retail commodity transactions while failing to be properly
registered. Specifically, the transactions were financed precious metals transactions with
individual investors. Arlt is directly liable for such violations, and is also liable as the
controlling person of Double Eagle. Double Eagle received commissions and fees totaling
$611,154.00 for these transactions.

B. RESPONDENTS

Double Eagle Enterprises, LLC and Double Eagle Metals were Florida corporations
formed on or around July 26, 2006. Double Eagle’s principal place of business was Charlevoix,
Michigan. Double Eagle was a telemarketing firm that solicited retail customers to invest in
financed precious metals transactions. Double Eagle has never been registered with the
Commission in any capacity

Eric Arlt is the incorporator and majority owner of Double Eagle. Arlt is a resident of
Charlevoix, Michigan. At all relevant times herein, Arlt was the controlling person of Double
Eagle. With respect to control, Arlt was the owner and operator of Double Eagle. Arlt managed
the day to day operations, supervising the solicitation of retail customers and engaging in the
solicitations themselves. Arlt was the ultimate decision maker and controlled all aspects of
Double Eagle’s business. Arlt had both general control over Double Eagle and specific control
over the conduct underlying Double Eagle’s violations, i.e., Double Eagle offering to enter into,
entering into, and confirming the execution of retail financed precious metals transactions, and
Double Eagle conducting an office and business in the United States for soliciting, accepting,
and otherwise dealing in retail financed precious metals transactions, Arlt has never been
registered with the Commission in any capacity.

 

' Respondents consent to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party; provided, however, that Respondents do not consent to the use of the Offer, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce
the terms of this Order. Nor do Respondents consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other
proceeding.

 
C. OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

Hunter Wise Commodities, LLC was formed as a California limited liability company
in July 2007 but was converted to a Nevada limited liability company in October 2010. It held
itself out on its website as “a physical commodity trading company, wholesaler, market maker,
back-office support provider, and finance company.” During the relevant period, Hunter Wise
executed and confirmed the execution of retail commodity transactions involving gold, silver,
platinum, palladium, and copper throughout the United States using a network of telemarketing
solicitors, such as Double Eagle, that it referred to as “dealers.”

AmeriFirst Management LLC (“AML”) is a Florida limited liability company formed
in October 2011. It has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity, On its
website, it claimed to provide dealers with “tangible assets in a growing physical market” and
“guarantee[s|] that every ounce of metal in [the dealer’s] customers [sic] account exists and is
ready for delivery at any point in time. During the relevant period, AML executed and
confirmed the execution of retail commodity transactions involving gold, silver, and platinum
through the United States using a network of telemarketing solicitors, such as Double Eagle, that
it referred to as “dealers.”

D. FACTS

During the relevant period, Double Eagle was a telemarketing firm that solicited retail
customers to engage in financed precious metals transactions, Although Double Eagle offered
precious metals on a fully paid basis, the vast majority of its business was in financed precious
metals transactions. This Order relates to the financed precious metals transactions executed
through Hunter Wise and AML.

Double Eagle conducted nearly all of its solicitations by telephone. Arlt, the controlling
person of Double Eagle, directly solicited customers and supervised the other telemarketers
involved in solicitation. When soliciting customers for financed precious metals transactions
executed through Hunter Wise and AML, Arlt and the other Double Eagle telemarketers
represented that to purchase a certain quantity of metal, the customer needed to deposit only a
percentage of the total metal value. Double Eagle represented that the customer would receive a
loan for the remaining value, and that the customer would have to pay a finance charge on the
loan, as well as a service charge. In addition, in order to purchase the metal, Double Eagle
represented that the customer needed to pay commission on the total metal value, and a mark-up
on the spot price of the metal.

If the customer agreed to the transaction, Double Eagle confirmed the transaction and
directed the customer to send Double Eagle a lump sum, which represented the total of the equity
deposit, the commission amount, and the mark-up amount. Upon receipt of those funds, Double
Eagle sent the funds in their entirety to Hunter Wise or AML. Hunter Wise and AML then sent
Double Eagle any commission and fees due. During the relevant period, Double Eagle received
$611,154.00 in commissions and fees for the retail financed precious metals transactions
executed through Hunter Wise and AML.

 
None of Double Eagle, Hunter Wise, or AML bought, sold, loaned, stored, or transferred
any physical metals for these financed precious metals transactions. Likewise, none of Double
Eagle, Hunter Wise, or AML actually delivered any precious metals to any customers. Instead,
Hunter Wise and AML managed exposure on these transactions using derivatives in margin
trading accounts with several entities, CFTC v. Hunter Wise Commodities, LLC, Case No. 9:12-
cv-81311-DMM, slip op. at 12-14 (S.D. Fla, Feb. 19, 2014) (order granting summary judgment).

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION
A, Relevant Statutory Background

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010,
Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010) (“the Dodd-Frank Act”) amended the Commodity
Exchange Act to add, among other things, new authority over certain leveraged, margined, or
financed retail commodity transactions, including authority to prohibit fraud in connection with
such transactions.

Section 742(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act added Section 2(c)(2)(D), 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2\(D)
(2012) to the Act.” Section 2(c)(2)(D) broadly applies to any agreement, contract, or transaction
in any commodity that is entered into with, or offered to (even if not entered into with), a non-
eligible contract participant (“non-ECP”)’ or non-eligible commercial entity on a leveraged or
margined basis, or financed by the offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting in concert with
the offeror or counterparty on a similar basis. 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D)QG). Section 2(c)(2)(D)
further provides that such an agreement, contract, or transaction shall be subject to Sections 4(a),
4(b), and 4b of the Act “as if the agreement, contract, or transaction was a contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery.” 7 U.S.C, § 2(c)(2)(D)Git).

Section 2(c)(2)(D)(i1) of the Act excepts certain transactions from Section 2(c)(2)(D).
Section 2(c)(2)(D)(i)(I1)(aa) excepts a contract of sale that “results in actual delivery within 28
days or such other longer period as the Commission may determine by rule or regulation based
upon the typical commercial practice in cash or spot markets for the commodity involved,"
Section 2(c)(2)(D)(ii)(I11)(bb) excepts a contract of sale that creates an enforceable obligation to

 

* Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act became effective July 16, 2011.

* As is relevant to this matter, Section 1a(18)(xi) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(18)(xi) (2012), defines
an eligible contract participant as an individual who has amounts invested on a discretionary
basis, the aggregate of which is in excess of $10,000,000, or which is in excess of $5,000,000
and who enters into the agreement, contract, or transaction in order to manage the risk associated
with an asset owned or liability incurred, or reasonably likely to be owned or incurred, by the
individual.

* The Commission has not adopted any regulations permitting a longer actual delivery period for
any commodity pursuant to Section 2(c)(2)(D)ii)1)(aa) of the Act. Accordingly, the 28 day
actual delivery period set forth in this provision remains applicable to all commodities.

4

 
deliver between a seller and a buyer that have the ability to deliver and accept delivery,
respectively, in connection with the line of business of the seller and buyer.

The Commission has stated that it is the view of the Commission that the determination
of whether “actual delivery” has occurred within the meaning of Section 2(c)(2)(D)Gi)(IID (aa)
requires a consideration of evidence beyond the four corners of the contract documents. This
interpretation of the statutory language is based on Congress’ use of the word “actual” to modify
“delivery” and on the legislative history of Section 2(c)(2)(D)(Gi)()(aa). Consistent with this
interpretation, in determining whether actual delivery has occurred within 28 days, the
Commission will employ a functional approach and examine how the agreement, contract, or
transaction is marketed, managed, and performed, instead of relying solely on language used by
the parties in the agreement, contract, or transaction.’ Unless the Commission provides
otherwise, the 28 days for actual delivery is 28 days from the date the agreement, contract, or
transaction is confirmed to the buyer or seller, typically, a retail customer.

Other than these exceptions, Congress did not express any intent to limit the reach of
Section 2(c)(2)(D). Rather, in enacting the statute Congress expressed its intent that Section
2(c)(2)(D) should be applicable to a broad range of agreements, contracts, and transactions.

Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act applies to all agreements, contracts, and transactions
entered into with, or offered to, non-ECPs on a leveraged or margined basis, or financed by the
offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting in concert with the offeror or counterparty on a
similar basis, as those terms are commonly used in the industry.

B. The Commission’s Jurisdiction

Respondents offered precious metals transactions to, and entered into such transactions
with, persons who were not eligible contract participants or eligible commercial entities.
Generally, Respondents’ customers were unsophisticated, individual investors who did not meet
the $10 million discretionary investment threshold to be considered ECPs. Moreover,
Respondents offered and entered into such transactions on a margined or leveraged basis, or
financed by Double Eagle, Hunter Wise or AML, which acted in concert with Respondents.
Respondents’ retail financed precious metals transactions fall squarely within the Commission’s
jurisdiction under Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act.

Respondents’ retail-financed precious metals transactions executed through Hunter Wise
and AML did not result in actual delivery to the customer. As found by the district court in
Hunter Wise, Hunter Wise had no actual metal to deliver. Hunter Wise, Case No. 9:12-cv-
81311-DMM, slip op. at 12-14 (S.D. Fla. Feb. 19, 2014) (order granting summary judgment).
Respondents’ transactions are not excepted from the Commission’s jurisdiction under Section
2(c)(2)(D)Gi)CID(A) of the Act.

 

> See Retail Commodity Transactions Under Commodity Exchange Act, 76 Fed. Reg. 77,670
(Dec. 14, 2011). :

 
C, Respondents Violated Section 4(a) of the Act: Illegal, Off-Exchange Transactions

As stated above, retail commodity transactions within the scope of Section 2(c)(2)(D) of
the Act are subject to enforcement under Section 4(a) of the Act, among other provisions, as if
such transactions are commodity futures contracts. Section 4(a) of the Act makes it unlawful for
any person to offer to enter into, enter into, execute, confirm the execution of, or conduct an
office or business in the United States for the purpose of soliciting, or accepting any order for, or
otherwise dealing in any transaction in, or in connection with, a commodity futures contract,
unless such transaction is made on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that has been
designated or registered by the CFTC as a contract market or derivatives transaction execution
facility for the specific commodity.

Respondents offered to enter into, entered into, and confirmed the execution of retail
financed precious metals transactions. Respondents also conducted an office and business in the
United States for the purpose of soliciting, accepting orders for, and otherwise dealing in retail
financed precious metals transactions. None of the retail financed precious metals transactions
were conducted on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that has been designated or
registered by the CFTC as a contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility for
precious metals. Respondents therefore violated Section 4(a) of the Act.

D. Respondents Violated Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act

Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act makes it unlawful for any person to engage as a futures
commission merchant (“FCM”), unless such person is registered with the Commission as an
FCM and such registration has not expired or been suspended or revoked. The Act defines FCM
to include, among other things, a corporation that is engaged in soliciting or accepting orders for
any agreement, contract, or transaction described in Section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) (retail commodity
transactions) and in or in connection with such acceptance of such orders, accepts money,
securities, or property (or extends credit in lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any
trades or contracts that result or may result therefrom. 7 U.S.C. § 1a(28)(A)G)(1)(aa)(DD) and
(II). Double Eagle acted as an FCM by soliciting and accepting customers’ orders for financed
precious metals transactions and, in connection with those transactions, accepting at least $1
million from those customers, including customers who were not ECPs, As such, Double Eagle
acted as an unregistered FCM. This conduct violated Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act.

E. Double Eagle is Liable for the Violations of Arlt

Double Eagle is liable for the violations of its agent, Arlt. Under Section 2(a)(1)(B) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), as well as Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2014), a
principal is strictly liable for the violations of its agents made within the scope of the agents’
employment. Rosenthal & Co. v, CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir, 1986). Arlt, along with
other Double Eagle telemarketers, was an agent of Double Eagle, and in the scope of his
employment they violated Section 4(a) of the Act. Double Eagle is therefore liable for these
violations,

 
F, Arlt is Liable as the Controlling Person Under Section 13(b) of the Act for Double
Eagle’s Violations

Arlt is directly liable for violations of Section 4(a) of the Act. In addition, Arlt directly
controlled Double Eagle and directly and knowingly induced Double Eagle’s conduct
constituting violations of the Act; therefore, pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §
13¢(b) (2012), Arlt is liable for Double Eagle’s violations of Section 4(a) of the Act. Section
13(b) of the Act states that a controlling person of an entity is liable for the violations of that
entity, provided that the controlling person knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, the
violations, or provided that the controlling person did not act in good faith. “A fundamental
purpose of Section 13b [sic] is to allow the Commission to reach behind the corporate entity to
the controlling individuals of the corporation and to impose liability for violations of the Act
directly on such individuals as well as the corporation itself.” CFTC v. R.J Fitzgerald & Co.,
Jnc., 310 F.3d 1321, 1334 (11th Cir. 2002) Gnternal quotation marks and citation omitted), cert.
denied, 543 U.S. 1034 (2004).

To establish controlling person liability under Section 13(b), the Division must show both
(1) control; and (2) lack of good faith or knowing inducement of the acts constituting the
violation. In re First Nat’l Trading Corp., {1992-1994 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep.
(CCH) { 26,142 at 41,787 (CFTC Jul. 20, 1994), aff'd without opinion sub nom. Pick vy. CFTC,
99 F.3d 1139 (6th Cir. 1996). To establish the first element, control, a defendant must possess
general control over the operation of the entity principally liable, See, ag, RU Fitzgerald, 310
F.3d at 1334 (recognizing an individual who “exercised the ultimate choice-making power
within the firm regarding its business decisions” as a controlling person), Evidence that a
defendant is an officer, founder, principal, or the authorized signatory on the company’s bank
accounts indicates the power to control a company, Jn re Spiegel, [1987-1990 Transfer Binder]
Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4 24,103 at 34,767 (CFTC Jan. 12, 1988). The Division must also
show that a defendant possessed specific control, which is “the power or ability to control the
specific transaction or activity upon which the primary violation was predicated.” Monieson v
CFTC, 996 F.2d 852, 860 (7th Cir. 1993) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). The
defendant does not need to participate in or benefit from the wrongdoing; the issue is whether the
defendant has the power to address the illegal conduct. /d. (finding that, in a trade allocation
case, the fact that the defendant could fire or discipline responsible employees, end the
placement of orders without numbers as soon as the defendant knew of it, or order a full
investigation was sufficient to show specific control).

With respect to control, Arlt was the owner and operator of Double Eagle. Arlt managed
the day to day operations, supervising the solicitation of retail customers and engaging in the
solicitations themselves, Arlt was the ultimate decision maker and controlled all aspects of
Double Eagle’s business. Arlt had both general control over Double Eagle and specific control
over the conduct underlying Double Eagle’s violations, i.e., Double Eagle offering to enter into,
entering into, and confirming the execution of retail financed precious metals transactions, and
Double Eagle conducting an office and business in the United States for soliciting, accepting,
and otherwise dealing in retail financed precious metals transactions.

In addition to control, the Division must show the controlling person knowingly induced,
directly or indirectly, the acts constituting the violation or did not act in good faith. To show

7

 
knowing inducement, the Division must show that a defendant had actual or constructive
knowledge of the core activities that constituted the violation and allowed the activities to
continue. /n re Spiegel, [1987-1990 Transfer Binder] Comm, Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) at 34,767. To
show lack of good faith, the Division must show that a defendant did not have an adequate
system of internal supervision, or that a defendant did not enforce such system with reasonable
diligence. Monieson, 996 F.2d at 860.

Arlt had actual knowledge that Double Eagle’s business was in off-exchange, retail
financed precious metals transactions, because it was the basic nature or essence of the business.
He also was aware that Double Eagle was not properly registered and allowed the business to
continue. Thus, Arlt knowingly induced the conduct in violation of Sections 4(a) and 4d(a)(1) of
the Act.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the relevant period,
Respondents violated Sections 4(a) and 4d(a)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6(a) and 6d(a)(1).

VIL
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondents have submitted the Offer in which they, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledge receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of the Order;

C, Waive:
1, the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2, a hearing;
3, all post-hearing procedures;
4, judicial review by any court;
5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s

staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,
5 U.S.C, § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s

8

 
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2014), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding;

any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No, 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to or arising from this proceeding; and

any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulate that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondents have consented in the Offer; and

Consent, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

l.

makes findings by the Commission that Respondents violated Sections 4(a) and
Ad(a)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §8§ 6(a) and 6d(a)(1);

orders Respondents to cease and desist from violating Sections 4(a) and 4d(a)(1)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6(a) and 6d(a)(1);

orders Respondents, jointly and severally, to pay restitution of six hundred-eleven
thousand, one hundred-fifty four dollars and no cents ($611,154.00), plus post-
judgment interest;

orders Respondents, jointly and severally, to pay a civil monetary penalty of one-
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), plus post-judgment interest;

orders that Respondents be permanently prohibited from engaging, directly or
indirectly, in trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that
term is defined in Section la of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a), and all registered entities
shall refuse them trading privileges;

orders Respondents and their successors and assigns to comply with the
conditions and undertakings consented to in the Offer and set forth below in Part
VII of this Order,

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Respondents’ Offer.

 
Vil.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondents shall cease and desist from violating Sections 4(a) and 4d(a)(1) of the Act, 7
U.S.C, §§ 6(a) and 6d(a)(1);

Respondents, jointly and severally, shall pay restitution in the amount of six hundred-
eleven thousand, one hundred-fifty four dollars and no cents ($611,154.00) within ten
(10) days of the date of entry of this Order (“Restitution Obligation”). Post-judgment
interest shall accrue on the Restitution Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this
Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of
entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961.

Respondents shall make their payments of the Restitution Obligation under this Order to
Melanie Damian, Esq., the corporate monitor appointed by the court in CFTC v. Hunter
Wise Commodities, LLC, No. 12-81311-CIV (S.D. Fla. Feb, 25, 2013) (“Hunter Wise
corporate monitor”), Respondents shall make such payments in the name of the “Double
Eagle Settlement Fund,” as appropriate, and shall send such payments by electronic funds
transfer, or U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank
money order to Melanie Damian, Esq., Damian & Valori LLP, 1000 Brickell Ave. Ste.
1020, Miami, FL, 33131, under a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and
the name and docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall
simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief
Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre,
1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581. To the extent any funds accrue to the
U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of Respondents’ Restitution Obligation, such funds shall be
transferred to the Hunter Wise corporate monitor,

Respondents shall, jointly and severally, pay a civil monetary penalty of one-hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the
“CMP Obligation”). Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the
Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C.

§ 1961 (2012). Respondents shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer,
U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If
payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be
made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address
below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables --- AMZ 340
E-mail Box: 9-AMC-AMZ-AR-CFTC
DOT/FAA/MMAC

10

 
6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Telephone: (405) 954-5644

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondents shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions, Respondents shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The Respondents shall simultaneously transmit copies
of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21" Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581 and to the Deputy Director, Division of Enforcement,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 140 Broadway, 19" Floor, New York, NY
10005.

Respondents are permanently prohibited from engaging, directly or indirectly, in trading
on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section la of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a), and all registered entities shall refuse them trading privileges;

Respondents and their successors and assigns shall comply with the following
undertakings as consented to and set forth in the Offer:

l, Public Statements: Respondents agree that neither they nor any of their successors
and assigns, or agents or employees under their authority or control shall take any
action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings
or conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that
this Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this
provision shall affect Respondents’: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take
legal positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondents and their successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary
to ensure that all of their agents and/or employees under their authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

2. Respondents agree that they shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. enter into any transactions involving commodity futures, options on
commodity futures, commodity options (as that term is defined in Regulation
1.3(bh), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(hh)), security futures products, swaps (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(47) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(47), and as further defined
by Regulation 1,3(xxx), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(xxx)), and/or foreign currency (as
described in Section 2(c)(2)(B) and 2(c)(2)(C)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§ 2(c)(2)(B) and 2(c)(2)(C)G)) (“forex contracts’) for their own personal
account(s) or for any account(s) in which they have a direct or indirect
interest;

11

 
b. have any commodity futures, options on commodity futures, commodity
options, security futures products, swaps, and/or forex contracts traded on
Respondents’ behalf;

c. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity futures, options on commodity futures, commodity options,
security futures products, swaps, and/or forex contracts;

d. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity futures, options on commodity futures,
commodity options, security futures products, swaps, and/or forex contracts;

e. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Commission Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(Q9);
and/or

f. act as a principal (as that term is defined in Commission Regulation 3.1(a),
17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person (as
that term is defined in Section la of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a) registered,
exempted from registration, or required to be registered with the Commission
except as provided for in Commission Regulation 4,14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R.

§ 4.14(a)(9).

Cooperation with the Hunter Wise Corporate Monitor: Respondents shall cooperate with
the Hunter Wise corporate monitor as appropriate to provide such information as the
Hunter Wise corporate monitor deems necessary and appropriate to identify
Respondents’ customers. Respondents shall execute any documents necessary to release
funds that they have in any repository, bank, investment or other financial institution,
wherever located, in order to make partial or total payment toward the Restitution
Obligation.

Cooperation with the Commission: Respondents shall cooperate fully and expeditiously
with the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, and any
other governmental agency in this action, and in any investigation, civil litigation, or
administrative matter related to the subject matter of this action or any current or future
Commission investigation related thereto.

Partial Satisfaction: Respondents understand and agree that any acceptance by the
Commission or the Hunter Wise corporate monitor of partial payment of Respondents’
Restitution Obligation, shall not be deemed a waiver of their obligation to make further
payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel
payment of any remaining balance.

 

12

 
I, Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondents satisfy in full their
Restitution Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Arlt shall provide written notice
to the Commission by certified mail of any change to their respective telephone number
and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

 

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

      
  

  

By the Commission. fi, A fj
Ad iy | x). f

Christopher J. Kirkpatrick

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: May 14, 2015

13

 
