UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

 

)
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE _ )
COMMISSION, )
100 F. Street, NE )
Washington, D.C. 20549-6030 )

Plaintiff ) Case: 1:08-cv-00473

ammnuiit, ) Assigned To : Robertson, James
| ) Assign. Date : 3/20/2008
v- Description: General Civil
AB VOLVO )
40508 Goteborg )
Sweden V7 )
)
Defendant. )
)
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange: Commission (the “Commission”), alleges

that: |
SUMMARY

1. From approximately 1999 through 2003, AB Volvo (“Volvo”) violated the
books and records and internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(the — CPA”) when two of its subsidiaries and their agents and distributors made .
approximately $6,206,331 in kickback payments, and authorized additional payments of
$2,388,419 in connection with their sales of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the United
Nations (“U.N.”) Oil for Food Program. Volvo’s subsidiaries and their distributors
authorized and paid kickbacks to Iraq in the.form of “after-sales service fees” on sales of
its products to Iraq. One of Volvo’s subsidiaries also made other types of illicit payments

to Iraq. Volvo knew or was reckless in not knowing that kickbacks were paid or agreed
to in connection with each of its subsidiaries’ transactions. Volvo knew that such
payments were prohibited by the Oil for Food Program and U.S. and international trade
sanctions on Iraq.

2. The Oil for Food Program provided humanitarian relief to the Iraqi
population during the time that Iraq was subject to international trade sanctions. The
program required that Iraq could purchase necessary humanitarian goods and related
services through a U.N. escrow account. However, the kickbacks paid in connection with
Volvo’s subsidiaries’ sale of goods to Iraq had the effect of diverting funds out of the
escrow account and were paid by third parties into Iraqi-controlled accounts at banks in
countries such as Jordan.

3. In paying “after-sales service fees” and other illicit payments to Iraq
outside of the confines of the U.N. program, Volvo failed to accurately record in its
books and records the kickbacks that were authorized for payment to Iraq. Volvo also
failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls to detect and
prevent such illicit payments.

4. As a result of this conduct, Volvo violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b\(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act’) [15 U.S.C.
§§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)}.

JURISDICTION

5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),

and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. Volvo, directly or

indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the
mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection with the
transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.

6. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] because Volvo does business in this judicial district and certain acts or
transactions constituting the violations by Volvo occurred in this district.

DEFENDANT

7. AB Volvo (“Volvo”), a Swedish company headquartered in Goteburg,
Sweden, is a provider of commercial transport solutions, including trucks, buses and
construction equipment. Throughout the relevant period, Volvo’s American Depositary
Receipts were registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and quoted on
the NASDAQ (symbol: “VOLV’”).. In December 2007, Volvo delisted its ADRs and
applied for termination of its registration with the Commission. Two Volvo subsidiaries,
Renault V.I. and Volvo Construction Equipment International were involved in sales of
commercial vehicles and parts to Iraq during the Oil for Food Program. Volvo is not the
company that currently manufactures the “Volvo” brand car.

RELEVANT ENTITIES

8. Renault V.I. (“Renault Trucks”), currently called Renault Trucks SAS, is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Volvo located in Lyon, France. Renault Trucks was
purchased by Volvo in January 2001 and its name was changed to Renault Trucks SAS in
January 2005.

9. Volvo Construction Equipment International (“VCEI’) was a wholly-

owned Swedish subsidiary of Volvo headquartered in Eskilstuna, Sweden. In January
2006, VCEI merged into Volvo Construction Equipment AB. VCEI sold heavy
construction equipment, including excavators and wheel loaders.

FACTS
I. The United Nations Oil for Food Program

10. On August 2, 1990, the government of Iraq, under Saddam Hussein,
invaded Kuwait. Four days later the United Nations Security Council voted to enact U.N.
Resolution 661, which prohibited member states from trading in any Iraqi commodities
or products. The United Nations continued to enforce these sanctions until 2003.

11. OnApril 14, 1995, the United Nations Security Council adopted
Resolution 986, which authorized the Government of Iraq to sell oil on the condition that
the proceeds of all of its oil sales be deposited in a bank account monitored by the United
Nations and used only to purchase designated humanitarian goods for the benefit of the
Iraqi people.. In May 1996, the Government of Iraq entered into a written Memorandum
of Understanding to implement Resolution 986.

12. The United Nations Office of Iraq Program, Oil for Food (the “Oil for
Food Program” or “Program”) was subsequently established to administer Iraq’s sale of
oil and purchase of humanitarian goods by Iraq. A special bank account was established
at a bank in New York (the “UN Escrow Account’) to handle the transactions. The
United Nations’ economic sanctions on Iraq remained in place for all trade and
transactions not authorized by the Oil for Food Program.

13. Starting in the middle of 2000, the Iraqi government made a concerted
effort to subvert the Program by demanding secret kickbacks from its humanitarian goods

suppliers. Although contracts entered into pursuant to the Program were subject to UN
review and approval, the Program gave Iraq discretion to select the companies from
which it purchased goods. A humanitarian supplier would submit a bid for the sale of its
goods. After the Iraqi ministry would accept the bid, the ministry would inform the
supplier of the requirement that the supplier make a secret payment in the form of an
“After-Sales Service Fee” (“ASSF”) to Iraq in order to win the contract. The Iraqi
ministry would also inform the supplier that the ASSF would have to be paid prior to the
goods entering into the country, or the goods would be stopped at the border until the
ASSF payment was paid.

14. Initially, when this scheme first began, suppliers met with the Iraqi
ministries in person and signed a side agreement acknowledging that the supplier would
make the illicit payment.’ By October 2000, this fee was usually ten percent of the total
contract value. Later in the scheme, everyone understood that the ten percent would have
to be paid. Thus, side agreements were no longer needed.-- the supplier would simply
increase its original contract bid by ten percent. |

15. The supplier would then submit its contract with the inflated contract price
to the UN for approval, and not disclose the ten percent illicit payment, which was in
violations of the Program rules. The supplier would pay the ASSF to Iraq prior to
shipping its goods. Afterwards, the UN Escrow Account would pay the supplier the
inflated contract price for the goods, thus, unknowingly reimbursing the supplier for the
ten percent that the supplier had already provided to Iraq, As a result of this conduct, the

UN Escrow Account lost the benefit of more than $1 billion.

 

' The side agreement was not provided to the UN when the Oil for Food contract was submitted and
approved. This was in violations of the Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions against Iraq.
16. After the United States invaded Iraq in March 2003, at the request of the
provisional government, the UN ceased Iraq’s ASSF scheme. The UN required that all
pending contracts that had been inflated by ten percent be amended to reflect the true
contract value of the goods.

II. Volvo Subsidiaries Make Illicit Payments to Iraq

17. Volvo and its subsidiaries sell commercial trucks, buses and construction
equipment. While the Oil for Food Program was in effect, VCEI and Renault Trucks,
two of Volvo’s subsidiaries, participated in the sales of trucks, construction equipment,
trucks, and spare parts to Iraq through the Program. During this time period, Iraq’s
various Ministries required the payment of ASSFs in connection with winning contracts
to supply humanitarian goods under the Program. -VCEI and Renault Trucks acquiesced
to the demands of the Iraqi Ministries and paid illegal ASSFs through third-party agents
and distributors. VCEI also acceded to Iraqi ministry requests to make additional illicit
payments, including one payment to purchase a car. Despite incurring losses on several
contracts, Volvo’s total gains from profitable contracts in which ASSF payments and
other illicit payments were paid or authorized amounted to $7,299,208. |
A. Renault Trucks Makes More than $5.1 Million in Improper ASSF

Payments to Iraqi Ministries and Authorizes $1.2 million in

Additional ASSF Payments
18. - Renault Trucks manufactures truck-tractors and rigid trucks. Commercial
| bodybuilders outfit the chassis and cabs produced by Renault Trucks with the trailers or
superstructures, commonly referred to as “bodies,” necessary to tailor the trucks to the

buyer’s specifications. During the Oil for Food Program, Renault Trucks contracted with

Iraqi ministries, including the Ministry of Oil, for the purchase of such specialized
vehicles. Between November 2000 and July 2001, Renault Trucks entered into at least
eighteen contracts under the Program. Renault Trucks then sub-contracted out the body-
building work requested by the Iraqi ministries to various bodybuilding companies. The
bodybuilder performed the requested work on the vehicle and charged Renault Trucks for
the modifications.

19. In order to mask the payment of ASSFs to the Iraqi ministries, Renault
Trucks employees devised a scheme in which the bodybuilders facilitated the payment of
the fees to Iraq. The bodybuilders would add the cost of the ASSF into the cost of the
bodybuilding work and submit the total cost to Renault Trucks for payment. The
bodybuilders then passed the ASSF payments to Iraq. Renault Trucks internal documents
discuss the fact that had Renault Trucks made the payments in its own name, “we would
have been caught red-handed.” One bodybuilder agreed to sign side letters agreeing to
the ten percent ASSF on Renault’s behalf, and agreed to send Renault an invoice for the —
ten percent so that Renault would have paperwork to cover the illicit payment.

20. The ASSFs paid on behalf of Renault Trucks’ eighteen Program contracts
totaled approximately $5,103,941. The payment of the ASSFs were, in some cases,
described as Bodybuilder fees and recorded as such on the company’s books and records.
Renault Trucks authorized, but did not pay, an additional $1,255,922 in improper ASSF

payments to obtain seven additional contracts.”

 

Because the sale was not completed and the ASSF was not paid by the time of the U.S. invasion of
Iraq in March 2003, the UN required that Renault Trucks amend the contracts, lowering its price to remove
the ASSF in order to process each of the contracts.
B. VCEI Authorizes More Than $103,000 in Kickbacks Prior to the
Imposition of ASSFs, and then Authorizes More than $2.2 Million in

ASSF Payments

 

1, VCEI Makes Illicit Payments, Including the Payment to Purchase a
Car
21. | VCEI sells heavy construction equipment, including excavators and wheel

loaders. From October 1999 to July 2000, VCEI entered into four contracts under the
Program prior to the imposition of the ASSF requirement by Iraq. On three of these
contracts, VCEI made illicit payments to Iraqi ministries in two ways. First, VCEI
internal documents for two of the contracts evidence illicit payments were kicked back to
Iraq that totaled between 5% and 11.27% of the contract value. These payments were
made by VCE] through its agent to various Iraqi ministries to obtain or retain business.
An internal VCEI document even discusses the extra trips VCEI staff had to make to Iraq
in order to make the payments, and the possibility of having to give more than just these
payments to obtain additional business. VCEI added the amount of these kickback
payments to the commission payments made to an agent, who then gave the money to
Iraq’s State Oil Marketing Organization (“SOMO”). The agent was a Jordanian
consulting firm (Jordanian Agent).

22. On the first two contracts, illicit payments of $30,506.50 and $37,909
respectively, were made to SOMO. These payments were in violations of VCEI’s policies
against payments to secure business. They were also incorrectly identified as
commission payments to the agent. On the fourth contract, VCEI gave the Jordanian
Agent a total of $15,950 as “the commitment to the third party whom support us and

VOLVO to gain orders in the said ministry.” This contract involved the Ministry of |
Housing and Construction, and was made to secure business. These payments were
invoiced as consultant expenses, and incorrectly recorded in VCEI’s books and records as
commission payments.

23. The second method VCEI used to make kickbacks to Iraqi ministries was
to purchase a car for the ministry. VCEI internal documents on the third contract show
that $19,000 was given to the Jordanian Agent to purchase a car for the Ministry of
Interior. VCEI did not disclose in the UN contract that it was providing a.car to the Iraqi
ministry. The payment of $19,000 for the purchase of a car was listed on VCEI’s books
and records simply as a cost of sale.

2. VCEI Makes ASSF Payments to Obtain Business

24. After the imposition of the ASSF requirement, VCEI or its distributors
entered into five additional contracts with Iraqi ministries that involved the payment or
authorization of illicit ASSFs. These contracts were entered into between December
2000 and October 2002. VCEI employees learned of the demands for ASSF payments
when a Swedish commercial delegation of VCEI employees visited Iraq in November
2000. The trip included a visit to the Baghdad International Trade Fair. In a November
11, 2000 internal memorandum discussing the trip, the employees noted that the ASSF
demand “appears to be a clear violations of the UN Embargo Rules that we are expected to
participate in.” The VCEI personnel then sought guidance from the Swedish Embassy in
Amman, Jordan as to how to respond to the ASSF demands. The Swedish Embassy sent
a letter to the U.N. on December 3, 2000, reporting that it had heard that Iraq was making
| demands for ASSF payments. The letter noted that VCEI (which was not identified by

name) had informed the embassy that it would refuse to sign the contracts. However,
records show that VCEI went forward with entering into transactions that included ASSF
payments. In a December 4, 2000 e-mail, VCEI personnel discussed the need for
handling the ASSF payments with “utmost discretion.”

1. VCEI’s Direct Sale to Iraq

25. In December 2000, VCEI directly entered into a contract with an Iraqi
ministry that included an ASSF payment. The contract, including the inflated price to
account for the ten percent ASSF, was submitted to the U.N. and approved. VCEI did
not notify the U.N. that the contract price was inflated to cover the ASSF payment. Soon
after this direct contract was signed, VCEI began working with the Jordanian Agent on
additional contracts. VCEI later entered into a written agreement with the Jordanian
Agent to act as its agent and backdated the agreement to cover the pending contract. By
the time the goods were ready to ship to Iraq one year later, in December 2001, the
Jordanian Agent informed VCEI that the ASSF had been paid by the Jordanian Agent to

- the Iraqi ministry. The Jordanian Agent then invoiced VCEI for its commission on the
sale, including reimbursement of the ASSF payment.

26. An ASSF payment of approximately $317,335 was made by the Jordanian
Agent on VCEI’s behalf to a bank in Jordan. The payment of the ASSF was described as

a consultation fee and recorded as commission payments to the agent in VCEI’s books

and records.

il. VCEI Makes Additional ASSF Payments by Using the
Jordanian Agent as a Distributor

27. Soon after this direct contract was signed, VCEI began working with the

Jordanian Agent on additional contracts. Following its payment of an improper ASSF in

10
connection with its direct sale to Iraq, VCEI changed its method of doing business for
future contracts in an effort to distance itself from the payment of the improper ASSFs.
VCEI decided to make the Jordanian Agent its distributor, rather than simply its agent.
As a distributor, the Jordanian Agent purchased vehicles directly from VCEI for its own
account. The Jordanian Agent, in turn, then sold VCEI products to Iraq and submitted its
own inflated contracts to the U.N.? Thus, VCEI was no longer the party named on the
inflated contracts to the U.N., but rather, the Jordanian Agent was the named party. With
VCEDP’s knowledge, the Jordanian Agent then facilitated payment of the ASSF to Iraq.
Through this mechanism, VCEI was able to move its goods into Iraq, but keep itself
distanced from any involvement in the ASSF scheme. The Jordanian Agent did not have
the infrastructure that normally would have been required by VCEI for its distributors,
and VCEI did not enter into any written distributorship agreement with the J ordanian
Agent as was required by company policy. VCEI sold its products at a price that ensured
the Jordanian Agent would have enough “spread” to enable the agent to make the ASSF
payment.

28. The Jordanian Agent entered into two contracts with Iraqi ministries for
the sale of VCEI products, and made $217,912 in ASSF payments in connection with
these contracts. According to a U.N. report of an interview of the Jordanian Agent, the
agent admitted that he personally paid kickbacks on behalf of VCEI.

iil. VCEI’s Sales Through a Tunisian Distributor

29. F ollowing a business dispute with the Jordanian Agent, VCEI began using

an established Tunisian distributor (“Tunisian Distributor’) to facilitate additional sales

 

3 The contracts submitted to the U.N. were inflated by the ten percent that was secretly being kicked
back to Iraq by the Jordanian Agent. .

11
of its products to Iraq during the Program. VCEI did not enter into a written agreement
with the Tunisian Distributor. Like the Jordanian Agent, the Tunisian Distributor
purchased equipment directly from VCEI for its own account. The Tunisian Distributor,
- in turn, then sold VCEI products to Iraq and submitted its own inflated contracts to the
U.N.* Thus, VCEI was no longer the party named on the inflated contracts to the U.N.,
but rather, the Tunisian Distributor was the named party. With VCEI’s knowledge, the
Tunisian Distributor then facilitated payment of the ASSF to. Iraq. Through this
mechanism, VCEI was able to move its goods into Iraq, but keep itself distanced from
any involvement in the ASSF scheme. VCEI reduced its prices to the Tunisian
Distributor to enable the distributor to make the ASSF payment.

30. The Tunisian Distributor entered into one contract with an Iraqi ministry
for the sale of VCEI products, and made $567,142 in ASSF payments in connection with
this contract. The Tunisian Distributor authorized, but did not pay, an additional
$1,132,497 in improper ASSF payments in connection with an additional contract.°
Il. Volvo’s Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

31. Volvo failed to maintain a system of internal controls sufficient to ensure
that the company’s transactions under the Oil for Food Program were executed in
accordance with management’s authorization and to maintain accountability for the

company’s assets. As discussed above, Volvo’s subsidiaries made numerous illicit

 

‘ . The contracts that the Tunisian Distributor submitted to the U.N. were inflated by the ten percent
that was secretly being kicked back to Iraq by the distributor.

. Because the sale was not completed and the ASSF was not paid by the time of the U.S. invasion of
Iraq in March 2003, the UN required that the Tunisian Distributor amend the contract price to remove the
ASSF in order to process the contract.

12
payments that contravened the Oil for Food Program, U.S. and international trade
sanctions, and its own internal FCPA and anti-bribery policies.

32. Although Volvo knew of endemic corruption problems in the Middle East,
it appeared to take on faith, without adequate confirming steps, that its managers and
employees were exercising their duties to manage and comply with compliance and
control issues. In addition, VCEI entered into a backdated written agency agreement
with the Jordanian Agent. Later, when it made the Jordanian Agent its distributor, VCEI
did not enter into a written distributorship agreement with agent as required by company
policy. In addition, the Jordanian Agent did not have the infrastructure that normally
would have been required by VCEI to allow a company to become a distributor. In
addition, VCEI sold its products at a price that ensured the Jordanian Agent would have
enough “spread” to enable the agent to make the ASSF payment. VCEI also reduced its
prices to enable its Tunisian Distributor to make the ASSF payment.

33.  Innineteen transactions that Volvo subsidiaries entered into directly with
Iraqi ministries, a portion of the subsidiaries’ sales price for goods to Iraq constituted
ASSF payments in violations of U.N. regulations and trade sanctions, and also Volvo’s
F CPA and anti-bribery policies. in three additional transactions entered into by
distributors, Volvo’s subsidiary, VCEI, knew or was reckless in not knowing that the
distributors were paying ASSFs and were submitting inflated contracts to the U.N. In
fact, in each of those instances, VCEI specifically changed its business relationship with
its agent in an effort to conceal VCEI’s involvement in the sales of its products to Iraq in
which ASSF payments were made. Four additional VCEI transactions included other

illicit payments, including the purchase of a car, in violations of the company’s internal

13
policies prohibiting such payments. Finally, on eight additional transactions, ASSF
payments were authorized, but not made because the provisional government required the
relevant Volvo subsidiary or distributor to reduce the inflated contract price by ten
percent. Moreover, as evidenced by the extent and duration of the improper ASSF
payments made by two Volvo subsidiaries and their distributors, the improper recording

of these payments in the company's books and records, and the failure of Volvo's
management to detect these irregularities, Volvo failed to devise and maintain an
effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect these violations of the FCPA, as
required by Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).

V.  Volvo’s Failure to Properly Maintain Its Books and Records

34. As described above, Volvo’s accounting for its Oil for Food transactions

failed properly to record the nature of the company’s kickback payments. On numerous
transactions, a portion of Volvo’s subsidiaries’ sales price for goods to Iraq constituted
ASSF payments in violations of U.N. regulations and trade sanctions, and also Volvo’s
FCPA and anti-bribery policies. In the instances in which the ASSF payments were
made, either directly by a Volvo subsidiary, or by an agent or bodybuilder, the Volvo
- subsidiary failed to properly designate those payments, characterizing some as
commission payments, and others as bodybuilder fees. The books and records also failed
to identify the other illicit payments, including the payment used to purchase the car.
Thus, Volvo failed to accurately record these payments in its books, records, and

accounts to fairly reflect the transactions.

14
CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
[violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

35. Paragraphs 1 through 34 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

36. As described above, Volvo, through its officers, agents, consultants,
representatives, and subsidiaries, failed to keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its
assets.

37. By reason of the foregoing, Volvo violated Section 13(6)(2)(A) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

SECOND CLAIM
[violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]

38. Paragraphs 1 through 37 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

39. As described above, with respect to illicit payments made in connection
with Volvo’s subsidiaries’ and their distributors’ sales to Iraq, Volvo failed to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable

_assurances that: (i) payments were made in accordance with management’s general or

specific authorization; and (ii) payments were recorded as necessary to maintain
accountability for its assets.

40. By reason of the foregoing, Volvo violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

15
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment:

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining Volvo from violating Sections
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)];

B. Ordering Volvo to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment interest,
wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct;

C. Ordering Volvo to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; and |

D. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: fer Zo , 2008
Respectfully submitted,

: | hen /b,lin

Chery¥. Scarfoyo (D.C. Bar No. 424115)
Tracy L. Pric
Kelly G. Kilroy

Attorneys for Plaintiff,

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE

Mail Stop 6030 SPH

Washington, DC 20549-6030

(202) 551-4403 (Scarboro)

16
