UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78957 / September 28, 2016

ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 3808 / September 28, 2016

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17586

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-

In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
SA/NV, FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-

AND-DESIST ORDER
Respondent.

 

 

I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be and hereby are instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (“AB InBev” or

Respondent’).
Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
Hil.

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds’ that:

Summary

1. This matter concerns AB InBev’s violations of the books and records and internal
controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), which occurred at its
Indian wholly owned subsidiary, Crown Beers India Private Limited (“Crown”). From 2009 to
2012, AB InBev held a 49% interest in an Indian joint venture, InBev India International Private
Limited (“TIPL”), which managed the marketing and distribution of Crown beer. During this
period, II[PL used third-party sales promoters to make improper payments to Indian government
officials to obtain beer orders and to increase brewery hours for Crown in 2011. IIIPL invoiced
Crown for reimbursement for certain of these expenses, and Crown paid or accrued them. In doing
so, Crown recorded certain of these expenses in its books as legitimate promotional costs. During
this period, Crown had inadequate internal accounting controls to detect and prevent these
improper payments and to ensure that transactions involving these promoters were recorded
properly in its books. As a result, Crown’s books, which were consolidated into AB InBev’s books
and records, did not accurately and fairly reflect the nature of the promoters’ transactions.

2. Furthermore, in December 2012, AB InBev entered into a separation agreement
with a former Crown employee containing language that impeded the employee from
communicating directly with the Commission staff about possible securities law violations. AB
InBev had also used the same or similar language in other separation agreements in the past.

Respondent

3. AB InBev, a global brewer, is a Belgian company headquartered in Leuven,
Belgium. AB InBev was formed in November 2008 through the merger of Anheuser-Busch
Companies Inc. (“Anheuser-Busch”) and InBev SA/NV (“InBev”). AB InBev’s American
Depositary Receipts trade on the New York Stock Exchange and have been registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act since September 16, 2009. AB InBev
has, through various direct and indirect subsidiaries and affiliates, approximately 155,000
employees based in 25 countries around the world. AB InBev files annual reports with the
Commission on Form 20-F.

Other Relevant Entities

4. Crown is a wholly owned subsidiary of AB InBev and is headquartered in
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India. Crown’s financial results are consolidated into AB InBev’s
financial statements, which are filed with the Commission.

 

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not

binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
5. IIIPL, a defunct company formerly based in Gurgaon, India, was a joint venture
between AB InBev and RJ Corp, an Indian corporation. InBev (AB InBev’s predecessor) and RJ
Corp formed II[PL in 2007 to brew and sell beer in India and Nepal. Prior to its dissolution in
early 2015, RJ Corp and AB InBev owned 51% and 49% of IIIPL, respectively. AB InBev and RJ
Corp each had the right to appoint four IIIPL directors, with RJ Corp having the right to appoint
the Chairman, who cast the tie-breaking vote on all but certain specified matters. RJ Corp
appointed the II[PL CEO, who had the power to appoint the other members of the II[PL
management team, except for the CFO, whom AB InBev appointed. Throughout the relevant
period, the top financial officer at Crown acted as the top financial officer at IIIPL. From mid-
2011 through early 2014, Crown’s in-house counsel also acted as II[PL’s in-house counsel.

Facts
A. Background
6. AB InBev’s predecessor corporate entities, Anheuser-Busch and InBev,

independently entered the Indian beer market before the two companies merged in November
2008. Anheuser-Busch entered the Indian market in 2007 through a joint venture with Crown and
subsequently bought out its partner, making Crown a wholly owned subsidiary. InBev entered the
Indian market in 2007 through II[PL. Post-merger, AB InBev continued to operate in India
through both Crown and IIIPL.

7. Pre-merger, Crown controlled the marketing, distribution, and sale of the beer it
brewed. The Anheuser-Busch/InBev merger, however, triggered a provision in the IIIPL joint
venture shareholders’ agreement that required IIIPL to manage the marketing, distribution, and sale
of beer brewed by Crown. Thereafter, IPL controlled the third-party sales promoters that were
used to facilitate the sale and marketing of Crown’s beers in both Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.
Among other tasks, these promoters administered retail promotional programs and liaised with
Indian state government authorities.

8. The sale of beer in India is predominantly regulated by individual states. In the
state of Andhra Pradesh, the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited (“APBCL”), an
instrumentality of the government of Andhra Pradesh, purchases beer directly from brewers and
sells beer directly to private retailers. In the state of Tamil Nadu, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing
Corporation (““TASMAC’”), an instrumentality of the government of Tamil Nadu, controls both
wholesale and retail beer sales, purchasing beer from brewers and selling to consumers through
TASMAC retail outlets.

B. Third-Party Promoters of AB InBev’s and IIIPL’s Beers Provided Improper Benefits
and Payments to Indian Government Officials

9. In early 2009, IIIPL’s CEO and his appointed executives formulated a plan to
increase IIIPL’s market share in Andhra Pradesh by providing improper benefits and payments to
government officials through third-party sales promoters.
Promoter Company A

 

10. In 2009, IIPL hired a promoter for the state of Andhra Pradesh, Promoter
Company A. Promoter Company A had no experience in the alcohol industry. Promoter
Company A received excessive commissions and reimbursements for questionable promotional
charges. For example, Promoter Company A sought reimbursement from IIIPL of certain
“display” charges that had no substantiation and were billed on a “per case” basis rather than based
on the actual amount spent on the display. Promoter Company A used these excessive
commissions and reimbursements to make improper payments to government officials at APBCL.

11. There was no executed contract in place to govern the relationship between
Promoter Company A and IIIPL. Neither HIPL nor Crown conducted any due diligence on
Promoter Company A. Instead, the contractual terms of IIIPL’s agreement with Promoter
Company A were documented only in two short internal emails between IIIPL employees.
Promoter Company A was replaced by a successor entity in April 2012, but neither IIIPL nor
Crown conducted any due diligence on the successor entity at that time. Even though Crown’s in-
house counsel forwarded AB InBev’s FCPA due diligence forms to IIIPL staff and offered to help
complete them, the due diligence forms were never completed. Neither company executed a
written contract with the successor entity until September 2012.

12. In December 2009, AB InBev received an internal complaint regarding compliance
and internal control issues at IIIPL, including potential FCPA issues related to Promoter
Company A. In response, AB InBev expedited an already-planned internal audit of IIIPL, which
AB InBev staff conducted in early 2010. This audit did not scrutinize Promoter Company A’s
activities or expenses. Still, the 2010 audit identified various deficiencies at IPL, including
(a) a lack of documented business policies and procedures for significant functions such as
procurement, vendor selection, and expense reimbursement; (b) a lack of awareness about FCPA
compliance; and (c) inadequate information technology controls regarding financial processes and
expense payments. AB InBev did not rectify many of the issues identified in the audit until 2011
or early 2012.

13. From April 2009 until March 2012, IPL generally incurred the initial costs of
marketing and selling Crown’s beer and then sent invoices to Crown for reimbursement. Crown,
in turn, recorded certain of these costs as expenses on its books and records. Crown thus either
incurred or accrued certain of Promoter Company A’s expenses and recorded them as legitimate
commissions or promotional costs, even though some of those amounts included improper
payments to government officials.

14. Despite the internal complaint and the 2010 audit results, Crown personnel did not
verify that a contract was in place with Promoter Company A and did not ensure that IIIPL
personnel had performed due diligence on Promoter Company A. As a result, Crown recorded
certain Promoter Company A expenses on its books in a manner that failed to accurately and fairly
reflect their true nature and purpose.
Promoter Company B

 

15. In or about 2011, IMPL began working with an individual (the “Principal”) who had
connections in Andhra Pradesh, including to the son-in-law of the Andhra Pradesh Excise Minister.
The Principal used his local connections to secure extra brewing hours for Crown after the Andhra
Pradesh Excise Commissioner limited Crown’s production time to 8 hours per day. On April 1,
2011, before the Principal was hired in any capacity by HIPL or Crown, and before the Principal
had entered into any contract, the Principal emailed HIPL a signed order from the Andhra Pradesh
Excise Commissioner that gave Crown an additional 7.5 brewing hours per day. The Principal
helped HIPL obtain further authorizations from the Andhra Pradesh Excise Commissioner to
operate for an additional 7.5 hours per day in May 2011, and an additional 7 hours per day in June
2011. Neither IIIPL nor Crown held any contractual relationship with, or had performed any due
diligence on, the Principal when he helped secure the additional brewing hours.

16. Around the same time, II[PL engaged the Principal to assist in generating beer
orders from TASMAC in Tamil Nadu. In April 2011, the Principal secured orders of more than
534,000 cases of beer in Tamil Nadu, resulting in gross profits of approximately $637,000 to
Crown. This was the first and only time that HIPL ever sold Crown beer in Tamil Nadu.

17. IMPL utilized the Principal’s company, Promoter Company B, to promote beer in
Tamil Nadu despite the fact that Promoter Company B had no experience, staff, or infrastructure in
Tamil Nadu.

18. IIIPL personnel did not conduct due diligence on the Principal or Promoter
Company B before they began performing work for HIPL. To conceal this fact, IIIPL employees
subsequently completed and backdated Promoter Company B’s due diligence forms to make it
appear as though they were completed in April 2011, when HIPL initially engaged Promoter
Company B. In addition, [IPL employees allowed the Principal to complete the due diligence
forms in the first instance, and then altered his responses to make them more suitable.

19. Neither Crown nor II[PL had a written agreement in place with the Principal or
Promoter Company B. Rather, the basic terms of the engagement were first set out in an internal
email between IIIPL employees in June 2011, several months after ITIIPL had begun to sell beer in
Tamil Nadu and after Promoter Company B had already invoiced IIIPL for its services. The terms
included an inflated commission rate, which Promoter Company B used to make improper
payments to TASMAC officials. II[PL employees subsequently drafted and backdated a contract
with Promoter Company B to create the appearance that the contract had been executed on the date
that IIIPL initially engaged Promoter Company B. In reality, HIPL did not execute a formal
contract with Promoter Company B until approximately January 2012.

20. Although they were on notice of internal controls issues at IPL and had received a
complaint about the Principal and Promoter Company B, Crown personnel did not verify the
existence of a written contract with Promoter Company B and did not confirm that IIIPL personnel
performed due diligence on Promoter Company B.
Cc. AB InBev’s Separation Agreement Contained Language that Impeded the Crown
Employee’s Communication with the Commission

21. In 2010 and 2011, a Crown employee (the “Crown Employee”) informed AB
InBev personnel that, among other things, IPL may have been using Promoter Company A to
make improper payments to government officials. The Crown Employee also raised concerns to
AB InBev about Promoter Company B, questioning its lack of sales experience, staff, and
infrastructure. The Crown Employee reported to AB InBev personnel that the Principal had a local
reputation for “taking care of’ government officials and suggested that AB InBev perform due
diligence on him.

22. During the relevant period, the Crown Employee was employed by an AB InBev
subsidiary.

23. In early 2012, AB InBev’s subsidiary terminated the Crown Employee’s
employment. The Crown Employee and AB InBev’s subsidiary subsequently engaged in
mediation regarding potential employment law claims related to this termination. In late 2012, the
Crown Employee and AB InBev’s subsidiary entered into a Confidential Agreement and General
Release (the “Separation Agreement’) that resolved the Crown Employee’s claims.

24. Paragraph 7.A of the Separation Agreement includes the following language:

[The Crown Employee] agrees to Keep in strict secrecy and confidence
any and all unique, confidential and/or proprietary information and
material belonging or relating to [the AB InBev subsidiary] that is not a
matter of common knowledge or otherwise generally available to the
public including, but not limited to, business, government affairs,
communications, financial, trade, technical or technological information.
[The Crown Employee] acknowledges and agrees that [the Crown
Employee] remains subject to the “Employment Agreement as to
Intellectual Property and Confidentiality,” which [the Crown Employee]
previously signed and is incorporated into the Agreement by reference.

25. Paragraph 7.C of the Separation Agreement includes the following language:

[The Crown Employee] agrees not to disclose, directly or indirectly, any
information regarding the substance of this Agreement to any person
other than [the Crown Employee’s] spouse, attorney, or financial or tax
advisor, except to the extent such disclosure may be required for
accounting or tax purposes or as otherwise required by law.

26. Paragraph 7.D of the Separation Agreement includes the following language:

[The Crown Employee] agrees that, if [the Crown Employee] violates in
any way any of the terms and conditions of paragraph 7, [the Crown
Employee] shall be liable to [the AB InBev subsidiary], and shall

6
immediately pay to [the AB InBev subsidiary] as liquidated damages and
not as a penalty, the total sum of $250,000.00 which represents
reasonable compensation for the loss incurred by [the AB InBev
subsidiary] as a result of such breach....

27. After signing the Separation Agreement, the Crown Employee, who was previously
voluntarily communicating directly with the Commission staff, stopped doing so. The Crown
Employee stopped doing so because he believed that he was prohibited by the recently executed
Separation Agreement and any violation of the Separation Agreement would risk triggering the
Separation Agreement’s liquidated damages provision. Only after the Commission issued an
administrative subpoena for testimony and documents did the Crown Employee resume
communicating directly with the Commission staff.

28. AB InBev has used the same or similar language in other agreements in the past.
Document Destruction at IPL

29. In or about May 2013, Commission staff learned of TIPL’s plans to destroy or hide
documents. The Commission staff informed AB InBev immediately thereafter, but the company
took no immediate corrective action. In September 2013, AB InBev notified the Commission staff
of a meeting in which several HIPL managers instructed top HIPL employees to remove potentially
inculpatory data from their offices and computers. Crown and HIPL’s in-house counsel attended
the meeting, but never alerted AB InBev management to the document removal instructions. Other
IIIPL employees reported that they had helped or observed HIPL managers take several binders out
of the building to destroy or move to a “secret location.”

AB InBev’s Investigation and Remedial Efforts

30. AB InBev did not report the 2009 and 2011 complaints to the Commission staff
before the Commission first contacted AB InBev in October 2011. During the investigation, AB
InBev did not respond to subpoenas in a timely manner, and made broad assertions of privilege
that required significant resources from the Commission staff to address and delayed the
production of responsive, non-privileged documents. The timeliness of AB InBev’s responses to
the Commission’s requests for documents and information improved over time.

31. After the 2010 internal audit, AB InBev did improve some internal controls at
Crown and INPL, including by adopting AB InBev’s own policies, due diligence questionnaires,
and checklists; more sound controls over expenses and cash; and tighter controls over HIPL’s
accounting software, and the eventual replacement in 2012 of a flawed accounting system with a
more sophisticated system. However, IIIPL employees were still able to circumvent many of these
controls between 2010 and 2012. AB InBev also conducted FCPA training at both IIIPL and
Crown, albeit over a year and a half after it received the first complaint regarding potential FCPA
violations.

32. Additionally, AB InBev and RJ Corp terminated their joint venture and dissolved
IIIPL in early 2015. AB InBev now operates in India solely through its wholly owned subsidiary,

7
Crown, and has consolidated its Indian production, sales, and marketing functions at Crown.
Following the dissolution of IIIPL in 2015, AB InBev conducted extensive FCPA training for
Crown’s staff, and implemented improved compliance policies and controls at Crown, including
policies and controls relating to third-party due diligence and contracts. AB InBev also has hired a
dedicated India compliance manager who reports to a new India Legal Counsel and Head of
Compliance.

33. In September 2015, AB InBev amended its separation agreements that impose
confidentiality restrictions on departing employees of its United States entities to make clear that
they do not prohibit the employees from reporting possible violations of law to governmental
agencies. Those separation agreements now include the following language: “I understand and
acknowledge that notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, I am not prohibited or in
any way restricted from reporting possible violations of law to a governmental agency or entity,
and I am not required to inform the Company if I make such reports.”

Legal Standards and Violations

34. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was,
or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have
known would contribute to such violation.

35. Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, issuers are required to make and
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer.

36. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers with a class of securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among other things,
transactions are (a) executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
(b) recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles or any other applicable criteria; and (c) recorded as
necessary to maintain accountability for assets; and access to assets is permitted only in accordance
with management’s general or specific authorization.

37. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted on July
21, 2010, amended the Exchange Act by adding Section 21F, “Whistleblower Incentives and
Protection.” The Commission adopted Rule 21F-17(a), which provides that, “No person may take
any action to impede an individual from communicating directly with the Commission staff about
a possible securities law violation, including enforcing, or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality
agreement... with respect to such communications.” Rule 21F-17(a) became effective on August
12, 2011.
38. As a result of the conduct described above, AB InBev violated Section 13(b)(2)(A)
of the Exchange Act, because its books and records did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the true nature and purpose of Promoter Company A’s illicit expenses.

39. AB InBev also violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by failing to
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable
assurances that Crown executed transactions in accordance with management’s general or specific
authorization.

40. In addition, AB InBev violated Rule 21F-17(a) because the Separation Agreement
contained language that impeded the Crown Employee from communicating directly with the
Commission staff. Such restrictions on providing information regarding possible securities law
violations to the Commission undermine the purpose of Section 21F, which is to “encourage[e]
individuals to report to the Commission” [Adopting Release at p. 201], and violate Rule 21F-17(a)
by impeding individuals from communicating directly with the Commission staff about possible
securities law violations.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent AB InBev’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent shall cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B), and Rule 21F-17, of the Exchange Act.

B. Respondent shall, within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, pay
disgorgement of $2,712,955, prejudgment interest of $292,381, and a civil penalty of $3,002,955,
for a total payment of $6,008,291 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance with Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).

If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice
600 and 31 U.S.C. § 3717.

Payment must be made in one of the following ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

 

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

9
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying AB
InBev as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings. A copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Ansu Banerjee, Assistant Regional
Director, Los Angeles Regional Office, Division of Enforcement, United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, 444 S. Flower Street, Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA 90071.

C. During a two-year term from the date the Order is issued, Respondent agrees, as set
forth below, to cooperate fully and truthfully with respect to this action and any other enforcement
litigation or investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party
into potential violations of the FCPA or Section 21F(h)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rule 21F-
17 promulgated under the Exchange Act (the “Proceedings”). In addition, during this two-year
term, Respondent agrees to cooperate fully and truthfully, when directed by the Commission, in
an official investigation or proceeding by the United States Department of Justice into potential
violations of the FCPA (“Other Proceedings”). The full, truthful, and continuing cooperation of
Respondent during this two-year term shall include, but not be limited to:

(1) producing, in a responsive and prompt manner, all non-privileged
documents, information, and other materials to the Commission as
requested by the Commission’s staff, wherever located, in the possession,
custody, or control of the Respondent, including translations of any of the
foregoing;

(2) using its best efforts to secure the full, truthful, and continuing cooperation
of current and former directors, officers, employees and agents, including
making these persons available, when requested to do so by the
Commission’s staff, at Respondent’s expense, for interviews and the
provision of testimony in the investigation, trial and other judicial
proceedings in connection with the Proceedings or Other Proceedings; and

(3) entering into tolling agreements, when requested to do so by the
Commission.
D. During a two-year term as set forth below, Respondent shall report to the

Commission staff on the operation of AB InBev’s FCPA and anti-corruption compliance
program. If Respondent discovers credible evidence, not already reported to the Commission
staff, that: (1) questionable or corrupt payments or questionable or corrupt transfers of property or
interests may have been offered, promised, paid, or authorized by Respondent, or any entity or
person while working directly for Respondent, to any government official; (2) that related false
books and records have been maintained; or (3) that Respondent’s internal controls failed to detect

10
and prevent such conduct, Respondent shall promptly report such conduct to the Commission

staff.

E. During this two-year period:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff a written report within one
year of the entry of this Order on the operation of AB InBev’s FCPA and
anti-corruption compliance program (the “Initial Report’). The Initial
Report shall be transmitted to Ansu Banerjee, Assistant Regional Director,
Los Angeles Regional Office, Division of Enforcement, United States
Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 S. Flower Street, Suite 900, Los
Angeles, CA 90071. Respondent may extend the time period for issuance
of the Initial Report with prior written approval of the Commission staff.

Respondent shall undertake one follow-up review, incorporating any
comments provided by the Commission staff on the Initial Report, to further
monitor and assess the operation of its FCPA and anti-corruption
compliance program and whether Respondent’s policies and procedures are
reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws (the “Final Report’).

The Final Report shall be completed by no later than one year after the
Initial Report, and shall be transmitted to Ansu Banerjee, Assistant Regional
Director, Los Angeles Regional Office, Division of Enforcement, United
States Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 S. Flower Street, Suite
900, Los Angeles, CA 90071. Respondent may extend the time period for
issuance of the Final Report with prior written approval of the Commission
staff.

The reports submitted by Respondent will likely include proprietary,
financial, confidential, and competitive business information. Public
disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation, impede pending or
potential government investigations, or undermine the objectives of the
reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the
contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except
(a) pursuant to court order, (b) as agreed by the parties in writing, (c) to the
extent that the Commission staff determines in its sole discretion that
disclosure would be in furtherance of the Commission’s discharge of its
duties and responsibilities, or (d) is otherwise required by law.

During this two-year period of review, Respondent shall provide its external
auditors with its annual internal audit plan and reports of the results of
internal audit procedures and its assessment of its FCPA compliance
policies and procedures.

11
(6) During this two-year period of review, Respondent shall provide the
Commission staff with any written reports or recommendations provided by
Respondent’s external auditors in response to Respondent’s annual internal
audit plan, reports of the results of internal audit procedures, and its
assessment of its FCPA compliance policies and procedures.

F, AB InBev has agreed that, within 60 days from the date the Commission enters this
Order, it will make reasonable efforts to contact the former employees of AB InBev’s United
States entities previously identified by the Commission staff, and provide them with a copy of this
Order and a statement that AB InBev does not prohibit former employees from contacting the
Commission regarding possible violations of federal law or regulation.

G. AB InBev has agreed to certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking set
forth in Paragraph IV.F above. The certification shall identify the undertaking, provide written
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to
demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further
evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and
supporting material shall be submitted to Ansu Banerjee, Assistant Regional Director, Los
Angeles Regional Office, with a copy to the Office of the Chief Counsel of the Enforcement
Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of completion of the undertaking.

H. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the remedial acts

described above, cooperation afforded to the Commission staff, and this undertaking.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

12
