UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 73835 / December 15, 2014

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 3611 / December 15, 2014

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16314

 

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
BRUKER CORPORATION, EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER
I,

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Bruker Corporation (“Bruker” or “Respondent’).

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order’’), as set forth below.

Hil.

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds' that:

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
Summary

1. This matter concerns violations of the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Bruker. The violations took place
from at least 2005 through 2011 and occurred throughout Bruker’s China operations. Employees
of the China offices of four Bruker subsidiaries (collectively, the “Bruker China Offices”) made
unlawful payments of approximately $230,938 to government officials (“Chinese government
officials”) who were employed by state owned entities (“SOEs”) in China that were Bruker
customers. These payments were made to obtain or retain business from the SOEs for the Bruker
China Offices. Specifically, all of the Bruker China Offices provided non-business related travel to
Chinese government officials, and one Bruker China Office also paid Chinese government officials
under “research cooperation” ventures and “collaboration” agreements (collectively, the
“Collaboration Agreements”) for which there was no legitimate business purpose. Bruker realized
approximately $1.7 million in profits from sales contracts with SOEs whose officials received the
improper payments.

2. The payments to the Chinese government officials were recorded as legitimate
business and marketing expenses in the Bruker China Offices’ books and records, when in fact
they were improper payments designed to personally benefit the officials. The Bruker China
Offices’ books and records were consolidated into Bruker’s books and records, thereby causing
Bruker’s books and records to be inaccurate. Bruker failed to devise and maintain an adequate
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to prevent and detect the improper payments that
occurred over several years.

Respondent

3. Bruker Corporation is a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in Billerica,
Massachusetts. Bruker designs, manufactures, and markets analytical tools and life science and
materials research systems (e.g., infrared spectrometers and microscopes) and maintains operations
in North America, Europe, and China. Bruker manages its China operations through the Shanghai
and Beijing representative offices of the Asia-based subsidiaries of four Bruker divisions: Bruker
Optics, Bruker BioSpin, Bruker Daltonics, and Bruker Materials (formerly Bruker AXS). Bruker’s
common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act
and is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (ticker: BRKR).

Facts

A. The Bruker China Offices Improperly Funded
Leisure Travel for Chinese Government Officials

4. The Bruker China Offices funded leisure travel for Chinese government officials to
visit the United States, the Czech Republic, Norway, Sweden, France, Germany, Switzerland and
Italy. These leisure trips typically followed business-related travel funded by the Bruker China
Offices. The Chinese government officials who went on the trips often authorized the purchase of

2
products from the Bruker China Offices. For example, during 2006, as part of a sales contract with
an SOE, a Bruker China Office paid for purported training expenses for a Chinese government
official (who signed the sales contract on behalf of the SOE). In fact, the payment included
reimbursement for sightseeing, tour tickets, shopping and other leisure activities in Frankfurt and
Paris. Also, in 2007, a Bruker China Office paid for three Chinese government officials to visit
Sweden for a conference, but included as part of the travel, several days of sightseeing in Sweden,
Finland, and Norway.

5. The Bruker China Offices also funded certain trips for Chinese government
officials that had no legitimate business component. For example, during 2009, a Bruker China
Office paid for two Chinese government officials to travel to New York, despite the lack of any
Bruker facilities there, and to Los Angeles, where they engaged in sightseeing activities. Also
during 2009, a Bruker China Office paid for three Chinese government officials to visit
destinations in Europe for sightseeing. In another instance, during 2010, a Bruker China Office
paid for three Chinese government officials to visit Frankfurt, Heidelberg, Stuttgart, and Munich,
in Germany, as well as Salzburg, Liz, Innsbruck, Graz, and Vienna, in Austria. And in 2011, a
Bruker China Office paid for Chinese government officials from seven SOEs to go on sightseeing
visits to Europe, including Austria, France, Switzerland, Italy, and the Czech Republic. In certain
cases, the Chinese government officials who went on these trips were involved in purchasing
products from the Bruker China Offices.

6. Overall, from 2005 through 2011, the Bruker China Offices paid approximately
$119,710 to fund 17 trips for Chinese government officials that were for the most part not related
to any legitimate business purpose. These trips were recorded in Bruker’s books and records as
business expenses, without any indication that they were primarily for sightseeing and other non-
business related activities. Bruker improperly profited by $1,131,740 from contracts obtained from
the SOEs whose officials participated on these trips.

B. A Bruker China Office Improperly Funneled Payments to Officials of
SOEs Under the Guise of Collaboration and Research Agreements

7. From 2008 through 2011, a Bruker China Office paid $111,228 to Chinese
government officials pursuant to 12 suspect Collaboration Agreements. Generally, under these
Collaboration Agreements, the SOEs had to provide research on Bruker products, or had to use
Bruker products in demonstration laboratories. However, the Collaboration Agreements did not
specify the work product that the SOEs had to provide to be paid, and no work product was in fact
provided to the Bruker China Office by the SOEs. Also, certain Collaboration Agreements were
executed directly with a Chinese government official, rather than the SOE itself; in some cases, the
Bruker China Office paid the Chinese government official directly. And at times, the Chinese
government officials who signed the Collaboration Agreements or obtained payments under the
Agreements were involved in purchasing products from the Bruker China Office. Bruker profited
by approximately $583,112 from contracts improperly obtained from the SOEs whose officials
received payments under the Collaboration Agreements.
C. Bruker Failed to Implement an Adequate Internal Controls System

8. From at least 2005 through 2011, Bruker failed to implement an adequate internal
controls system to address the potential FCPA problems posed by its ownership of the Bruker
China Offices, which sold their products primarily to SOEs. For example, Bruker did not translate
its training presentations on FCPA, ethics, or compliance issues into local languages, including
Mandarin. And although Bruker implemented an FCPA policy in 2006, it failed to translate that
policy into Mandarin and relied mainly on its China-based managers to ensure that employees
understood the potential FCPA implications of doing business with SOEs. Also, while Bruker
periodically distributed its Code of Conduct (containing its gifts and entertainment policies) and
employee handbook to employees worldwide, it again failed to translate these documents into local
languages, including Chinese. Likewise, Bruker’s toll free employee hotline, which employees
were to use to report complaints anonymously, was not provided in Mandarin, limiting its efficacy.

9. Bruker also failed to adequately monitor and supervise the senior executives at the
Bruker China Offices to ensure that they enforced anti-corruption policies or kept accurate records
concerning payments to Chinese government officials. The Bruker China Offices had no
independent compliance staff or an internal audit function that had authority to intervene into
management decisions and, if appropriate, take remedial actions. Bruker also failed to tailor its
preapproval processes for conditions in China, instead allowing the Bruker China Offices approval
over items such as nonemployee travel and changes to contracts. As a result, senior employees of
the Bruker China Offices had unsupervised control over the compliance process; these employees
in turn abused their privileges, approving suspect payments to Chinese government officials for
non-business related travel and for purported Collaboration Agreements.

D. Discovery, Internal Investigation, and Self-Reporting

10. Bruker discovered the improper payments to Chinese government officials during
2011 while investigating the misappropriation of company funds by certain employees of a Bruker
China Office. Upon learning about these payments, Bruker’s board of directors promptly initiated
an investigation, with the assistance of independent outside counsel and an independent forensic
consulting firm. Bruker self-reported the preliminary results of its internal investigation to both the
staff of the Commission and to the Department of Justice. Thereafter, Bruker, on its own initiative,
undertook a broad review of the China operations of its other divisions. To the extent this internal
review identified additional issues of concern, Bruker fully shared its findings with the staff.

11. As part of its internal review and investigation, Bruker promptly undertook
significant remedial measures including terminating the senior staff at each of the Bruker China
Offices. Bruker also revised its pre-existing compliance program, updated and enhanced its
financial accounting controls and its compliance protocols and policies, and implemented those
enhancements in China, and thereafter around the world. These steps included: (1) instituting pre-
approval processes for nonemployee travel and significant changes to contracts; (2) establishing a
new internal audit function and hiring a new director of internal audit who is charged with
oversight over Bruker’s global compliance program, including FCPA compliance; (3) adopting an

4
amended FCPA policy translated into local languages; (4) implementing an enhanced FCPA
training program, which includes training programs in local languages as well as mandatory online
employee training programs regarding ethics and FCPA compliance; (5) enhancing due diligence
procedures for third-parties; and (6) implementing a new global whistleblower hotline.

12. Throughout the process, Bruker provided extensive, thorough, and real-time
cooperation with the Commission. In addition to self-reporting to the Commission shortly after
discovering the FCPA violations, Bruker voluntarily provided the Commission with real-time
reports of its investigative findings; shared its analysis of important documents and summaries of
witness interviews; expanded the scope of the investigation at the Commission’s request; and
responded to the Commission’s requests for documents and information in a timely manner. These
actions assisted the Commission in efficiently collecting valuable evidence, including information
that may not have been otherwise available to the staff.

Legal Standards and Violations

A. Legal Standards

13. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of the Exchange Act or any regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or would
be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would
contribute to such violation.

14. The FCPA, enacted in 1977, added Section 13(b)(2)(A) to the Exchange Act to
require reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer. 15
U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A).

15. The FCPA also added Section 13(b)(2)(B) to the Exchange Act to require reporting
companies to, among other things, devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that the transactions: (1) are executed in accordance
with management’s general or specific authorization; and (11) are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles

(“GAAP”) or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for
assets. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B).

B. Bruker Violated Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act

16. The Bruker China Offices made payments to Chinese government officials that
they improperly recorded on their books and records as legitimate business and marketing
expenses. The books and records of the Bruker China Offices were consolidated into Bruker’s
books and records. As a result of the misconduct of its subsidiaries, Bruker failed to make and
keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its

5
transactions and the disposition of its assets as required by Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange
Act.

17. The improper payments described above took place over several years and
throughout Bruker’s China operations. Bruker failed to implement an adequate system of internal
controls, including an appropriate FCPA compliance and training program at its Bruker China
Offices, which was commensurate with the risks of doing business in China, and particularly the
risks of businesses that sold products primarily to SOEs. Accordingly, in violation of Section
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, Bruker failed to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that it maintained accountability
for its assets, and that its transactions were executed in accordance with management’s
authorization and recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in
conformity with GAAP.

Commission Consideration of Bruker’s Cooperation and Remedial Efforts

18. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Bruker and the significant cooperation it afforded to the Commission staff.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent Bruker’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Bruker cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.

B. Respondent shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay $2,399,969 to
the United States Treasury, including $1,714,852 in disgorgement, $310,117 in prejudgment
interest, and a civil monetary penalty of $375,000. If timely payment is not made, additional
interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be
made in one of the following ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through
the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal
money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Bruker as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Paul G. Block, Assistant Director,
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, Boston Regional Office, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 33 Arch Street, Suite 2300, Boston, Massachusetts 02110.

C. Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in
excess of $375,000 based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and related
enforcement action. If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement
(“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially false
or misleading information or materials to the Commission or in a related proceeding, the Division
may, at its sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to
reopen this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an additional civil penalty.
Respondent may contest by way of defense in any resulting administrative proceeding whether it
knowingly provided materially false or misleading information, but may not: (1) contest the
findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to,
any statute of limitations defense.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
