Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 1 of 54

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

Case No.: -Civ-

 

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION,

Plaintiff, Hon.

 

VS.

DANIEL FINGERHUT, DIGITAL
PLATINUM, INC., DIGITAL PLATINUM,
LTD, HUF MEDIYA, LTD (A.K.A. HOOF
MEDIA LTD.), TAL VALARIOLA, and

ITAY BARAK,
Defendants,
and
AICEL CARBONERO,
Relief Defendant.

4 _4_4_4_4_4_4_ 4 _4)_4)_4)_4)_4_4_4_4_4_4_4_4_4 4

 

COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE AND EQUITABLE RELIEF AND
PENALTIES UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (““CFTC” or “Commission’’), by and

through its attorneys, hereby alleges as follows:

I. SUMMARY

1. Throughout the period of at least October 2013 and continuing through at least
August 2018 (“Relevant Period’), two massive fraudulent solicitation schemes occurred, one
involving binary options and the other digital assets, including Bitcoin and Ethereum. The

1
oD
a
r
uv
vee
ot
rf
a
wo
a
_

binary options fraud occurred between at least October 2013 and November 2016 (“Binary
Options Period’’); the digital assets fraud occurred between at least October 2016 and August
2018 (“Digital Assets Period’).

2. During the Binary Options Period, Defendant Digital Platinum Limited (““DPL’’),
through its control persons, Defendants Tal Valariola (“Valariola”) and Itay Barak (“Barak’’),
willfully aided and abetted All In Publishing LLC’s (“AIP”) fraudulent binary options affiliate
marketing scheme that involved tens of millions of solicitations to prospective customers
advising them to open and fund off-exchange binary options trading accounts involving foreign
exchange currency pairings (“forex’’), metals, and/or swaps through websites operated by
unregistered, off-exchange binary options brokers who paid AIP and DPL commissions. AIP’s
solicitations offered free access to trading systems that traded binary options automatically on
behalf of customers once they opened and funded an account with the recommended broker
(“Trading Systems’’).

3. AIP’s binary options marketing scheme involved at least twenty-four (24)
fraudulent binary options campaigns, which DPL willfully aided and abetted by, among other
things, willfully providing fraudulent sales videos that they procured for AIP’s campaigns,
knowing solicitations that AIP created themselves included false or misleading statements,
sharing AIP’s fraudulent solicitations with brokers and encouraging brokers to use the false or
misleading statements in their further solicitations, supplying the Trading Systems that they
knew did not operate as marketed, acting as an intermediary with brokers, and managing the
funds resulting from their campaigns.

4. Commencing in June 2014, Defendant Daniel Fingerhut intentionally or

recklessly created and/or disseminated solicitations that he knew included false or misleading
oD
a
r
uv
vee
ot
rf
a
wo
a
_

statements about the Trading Systems for at least twenty (20) of those fraudulent binary options
campaigns on behalf of AIP.

5. During the Digital Assets Period, Fingerhut, as an agent of DPL and DPL’s
related entities, Defendants Digital Platinum, Inc. (“DPI’’) and Huf Mediya, Ltd. (“Huf’), also
controlled by Valariola and Barak (Valariola, Barak, DPI, DPL and Huf are hereafter
collectively referred to as “Digital Platinum Defendants’), engaged in a similar fraudulent
solicitation scheme involving digital assets. Fingerhut managed Digital Platinum Defendants’
affiliate marketing program during this time, including by intentionally or recklessly creating
and/or disseminating millions of fraudulent solicitations advising customers and prospective
customers to open and fund digital assets trading accounts with brokers who paid Digital
Platinum Defendants commissions for doing so. The fraudulent solicitations promised free
access to automated trading software that purported to trade digital assets on behalf of customers
automatically with no risk and guaranteed profits (“DA Trading Systems’). DPL and/or Huf,
through the acts of control persons Valariola and Barak and other employees and agents of DPL
and Huf, selected brokers for these campaigns, supplied the DA Trading Systems, and paid DPI
and Fingerhut a portion of the commissions earned resulting from Fingerhut’s and his group’s
solicitations.

6. Fingerhut intentionally or recklessly created and/or disseminated millions of
fraudulent solicitations between June 2014 and August 2018 that contained materially false or
misleading statements about the marketed Trading Systems and DA Trading Systems, including:
(i) fictitious trading performance and account statements showing consistent profits with no

losses; (11) actors depicted as true users and/or creators of the marketed trading software falsely
claiming they had earned significant profits automatically with the software; and/or (111) false
representations of actual live automated trading and results using the advertised software.

7. Fingerhut had no legitimate source of income between June 2014 and August
2018. Fingerhut paid off his mortgage with tainted funds in July 2018 and then quit-claimed the
deed to his home to Relief Defendant Aicel Carbonero (“Carbonero”’) for $10 in August 2018.
Carbonero did not provide any legitimate services to AIP or Digital Platinum Defendants and
does not have any interest in or entitlement to Fingerhut’s home.

8. Upon receipt of an investigative subpoena in August 2018 concerning the
Commission’s investigations related to affiliate marketing fraud, Fingerhut offered to cooperate,
prepare a sworn declaration, and testify as a witness against his former colleagues. However,
rather than fully and truthfully cooperate, Fingerhut intentionally or recklessly made materially
false or misleading statements to Staff at the Commission’s Division of Enforcement (‘Staff’)
and under oath in an apparent effort to conceal the extent of his role in the fraud and avoid
producing responsive documents and information.

9. By virtue of this conduct and further conduct described below, Defendants have
engaged, are engaging, or are about to engage, in acts and practices in violations of the following
sections of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. §§ 1-26 (2018), and accompanying
regulations (“Regulation(s)’), 17 C.F.R. Pts. 1-190 (2019), in that:

(a) Between June 2014 and October 2016, Fingerhut, while acting as AIP’s agent

violated Section 4c(b), 40(1), and 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b), 60(1),
9(1) (2018) and Regulations 32.9 and 180.1(a)(1)-@), 17 C.F.R. §§ 32.9,
180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2019), which prohibit commodity options fraud, fraud by a

Commodity Trading Advisor (“CTA”), and deceptive devices, schemes and/or
mye PPT RRP PSB
eV A Let Oe

oD
a
r
vp
vee
ot
rf
a
wo
a
”

artifices in connection with, among other things, commodities in interstate
commerce and/or swap transactions (“swaps fraud’’);

(b) Between October 2013 and November 2016, DPL, Valariola, and Barak willfully
aided and abetted AIP’s and Fingerhut’s violations of 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b), 9(1) and
17 C.F.R. §§ 32.9 and 180.1(a)(1)-(3), which prohibit commodity options fraud
and swaps fraud;

(c) Between October 2016 and August 2018, Fingerhut and Digital Platinum
Defendants violated 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3), which
prohibits swaps fraud; and

(d) Between August 2018 and at least May 2019, Fingerhut violated Section 6(c)(2)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(2) (2018), which prohibits false or misleading statements
of material facts to the Commission.

10. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2018), the
Commission brings this action to enjoin Defendants’ unlawful acts and practices and to compel
Defendants’ compliance with the Act and Regulations, and to further enjoin Defendants from
engaging in certain commodity options related activities.

11. In addition, the Commission seeks civil monetary penalties and remedial ancillary
relief, including, but not limited to, trading and registration bans, restitution, disgorgement,
rescission, pre- and post-judgment interest, and such other relief as the Court may deem
necessary and appropriate.

12. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, Defendants are likely to continue to
engage in the acts and practices alleged in this Complaint and similar acts and practices, as more

fully described below.
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 6 of 54

I. JURISDICTION & VENUE

13. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under 28 U.S.C. § 1331 (2018)
(federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. § 1345 (2018) (district courts have original
jurisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by any agency expressly
authorized to sue by Act of Congress). Section 6c(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-I(a) (2018),
authorizes the Commission to seek injunctive relief against any person whenever it shall appear
that such person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice that
violates any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or order promulgated thereunder.

14. Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 13a-1(e) (2018), because Defendants are found in, inhabit, or transact business in the Southern
District of Florida, and the acts and practices in violations of the Act and Regulations have

occurred within this District, among other places.

Ht. THE PARTIES

15. Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission is the independent federal
regulatory agency charged with the administration and enforcement of the Commodity Exchange
Act and regulations promulgated thereunder.

Defendant Fingerhut & Relief Defendant

16. Defendant Daniel Fingerhut is a resident of Miami Beach, Florida. Between at
least June 2014 and October 2016, Fingerhut created and/or disseminated fraudulent solicitations
related to binary options on behalf of AIP. Between October 2016 and August 2018, Fingerhut
managed the marketing at DPI and at its related entities, DPL and Huf, and created,

disseminated, and oversaw others creating and disseminating fraudulent solicitations related to
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 7 of 54

digital assets and digital assets options. Fingerhut has never been registered with the
Commission in any capacity.

17. Relief Defendant Aicel Carbonero (“Carbonero’’) is a resident of Miami Beach,
Florida. On August 16, 2018, Fingerhut transferred title of his home to Carbonero through a
quit-claim deed for $10. Carbonero has never been registered with the CFTC in any capacity.

18. Relief Defendant Carbonero did not perform any legitimate services for AIP or
the Digital Platinum Defendants, and does not have any legitimate interest in or entitlement to
those funds.

Digital Platinum Defendants

19. Defendant Digital Platinum Ltd. (“DPL’’) is an Israeli company with its principal
place of business in Tel Aviv. Between at least October 2013 and November 2016, DPL
willfully aided and abetted AIP, where Fingerhut worked, to carry out the binary options fraud.
DPL, through Valariola and Barak, acted as the intermediary between AIP and the recommended
brokers, was responsible for the backend operations of the affiliate marketing campaigns,
collected and distributed commission payments, procured sales videos for AIP to use in its
campaigns, and supplied the marketed Trading Systems, among other things. Fingerhut began
working with DPL and its related entities directly after leaving AIP around October 2016.
During the ensuing Digital Assets period, Fingerhut acted as the agent of the Digital Platinum
Defendants in managing and carrying out the fraudulent marketing activities involving digital
assets. DPL has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

21. Defendant Huf Mediya Ltd. (a.k.a. Hoof Media Ltd.) (“Huf’) is a Bulgarian
company. On information and belief, Huf, DPL, and DPI are related entities, and Valariola and

Barak are control persons of all three entities. Fingerhut invoiced Huf for his affiliate marketing
services for DPI and DPL beginning in July 2017 and Valariola directed him to execute a
contract with Huf for his work related to Digital Platinum Defendants in December 2017.
Beginning at least in August 2017, Huf sent DPI and Fingerhut money for the digital assets
campaigns to bank accounts in the United States. Huf has never been registered with the CFTC
in any capacity.

22. Defendant Digital Platinum, Inc. (“DPI”) is an inactive Florida corporation
organized on April 15, 2016 and located in Hollywood, Florida. The officers and directors of
DPI include Defendants Barak and Valariola. DPL is the parent company of DPI. Fingerhut
operated out of DPI’s Florida offices and acted as DPI’s agent in managing and carrying out the
fraudulent solicitations involving digital assets. DPI has never been registered with the CFTC in
any capacity.

23. Defendant Tal Valariola (“Valariola’”’) is a resident of Tel Aviv, Israel. At all
relevant times, Valariola owned and/or controlled DPL, DPI, and Huf. Between at least October
2013 and November 2016: provided AIP with sales videos that depicted fictitious testimonials
and trading results; knew that AIP created similar false or misleading solicitations and widely
disseminated them to potential customers; shared AIP’s false or misleading solicitations with
brokers to assist their efforts to further induce prospective customers to open and fund an
account; supplied the marketed trading software (which did not perform as promised), served as
the intermediary with brokers; and managed funds and results of campaigns related to the
scheme. Between at least October 2016 and August 2018, Valariola, on behalf of DPL, DPI, and
Huf, directed, approved, and participated in the digital assets solicitation scheme, including by
retaining Fingerhut to manage the affiliate marketing component of the scheme that included

generating false or misleading solicitations and widely disseminating them to potential
oD
a
r
vp
vee
ot
rf
a
wo
a
”

customers. Valariola, on behalf of DPL, DPI, and Huf, also directly or indirectly supplied the
marketed trading software (which did not perform as promised), served as the intermediary with
brokers, and managed funds related to the scheme. Valariola has never been registered with the
CFTC in any capacity.

24. Defendant Itay Barak (“Barak’’) is a resident of Tel Aviv, Israel. Between at
least October 2013 and November 2016, Barak, on behalf of DPL, directly or indirectly provided
sales videos that depicted fictitious testimonials and trading results to AIP, knew that AIP
created similar false or misleading solicitations and widely disseminate them to potential
customers, supplied the marketed trading software (which did not perform as promised), served
as the intermediary with brokers, and managed funds and results of campaigns related to the
scheme. Between at least October 2016 and August 2018, Barak, on behalf of DPL, DPI, and
Huf, directed, approved, and participated in the digital assets solicitation scheme, including by
retaining Fingerhut to manage the affiliate marketing component of the scheme that included
generating false or misleading solicitations and widely disseminating them to potential
customers. Barak, on behalf of DPL, DPI, and Huf, also directly or indirectly supplied the
marketed trading software (which did not perform as promised), served as the intermediary with
brokers, and managed funds related to the scheme. Barak has never been registered with the
CFTC in any capacity.

IV. OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

25. All In Publishing, LLC (“AIP”’) is a Florida limited liability company with its

principal place of business in Miami, Florida. AIP became inactive after the Binary Options

Period. AIP has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.
26. Timothy Atkinson (“Atkinson”) was the owner, member, and president of AIP
during the Binary Options Period. Atkinson has never been registered with the Commission in
any capacity. During the Binary Options Period, Fingerhut created and disseminated binary
options solicitations for AIP and reported to Atkinson and another employee of AIP, Jay
Passerino. Atkinson has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

27. On September 27, 2018, Staff filed a binary options solicitation fraud complaint
against AIP, Atkinson, Passerino, and Passerino’s company Gasher, Inc., in the Southern District
of Florida. Complaint, CFTC vy. Atkinson, No. 18-cv-23992-JEM (S.D. Fla. Filed Sept. 27, 2018)
(ECF No. 1) (“Atkinson litigation’). Staff sought and obtained emergency relief in the Atkinson
litigation, /d. at ECF 48; the Honorable Jose E. Martinez (“Atkinson Court’) entered a Consent
Order for Permanent Injunction against Atkinson and AIP on May 22, 2019, Jd. at ECF 206, and
a similar order against Passerino and Gasher, Inc. on February 12, 2020. Jd. at ECF 237.

28. Jay Passerino (“Passerino”’) managed DPL, DPI and Huf’s operations in the
United States during the Digital Assets Period and worked closely with Fingerhut during that
time. Passerino has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

29. Fingerhut Group, Inc. (“Fingerhut Group’) is a Florida corporation organized
on March 13, 2014 and located in Miami Beach, Florida. Fingerhut voluntarily dissolved
Fingerhut Group on April 30, 2018. Between March 13, 2014 and April 30, 2018, Fingerhut was
the president and registered agent of Fingerhut Group. Fingerhut opened at least one bank
account in the name of Fingerhut Group and received deposits into that account for his
fraudulent activities at AIP and Digital Platinum Defendants during the Relevant Period.

30. Recruiting Hut, LLC (“Recruiting Hut’) is a Florida limited lability company

organized on July 2, 2015 and located in Miami Beach, Florida. On May 3, 2019, Fingerhut

10
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 11 of 54

filed articles of dissolution with the State of Florida for Recruiting Hut. According to corporate
records, Fingerhut was the managing member and registered agent for Recruiting Hut at all times
relevant. In Fingerhut’s 2018 annual report, Fingerhut identified Recruiting Hut’s principal
place of business as the address for DPI’s office. Recruiting Hut has never been registered with
the Commission in any capacity.

31. Media Hut, Inc. (“Media Hut’) is a Florida corporation organized on March 28,
2018 and located in Miami Beach, Florida. Fingerhut is the president and registered agent of
Media Hut. During the Digital Asset Period, Media Hut received deposits from Digital Platinum
Defendants for Fingerhut’s fraudulent affiliate marketing services. Media Hut has never been
registered with the CFTC in any capacity.

V. FACTS

A. Background: Affiliate Marketing in Binary Options and Digital Assets

32. Defendants engaged in fraud through affiliate marketing schemes. Affiliate
marketing is a form of performance-based marketing that is predominantly conducted via email
solicitations and promotional materials made available on internet websites. An affiliate
marketing campaign is a promotion of a product/service designed to convince the audience to
take a specific action, including purchasing a product or service or opening and funding a trading
account. Affiliate marketing is referred to as a “campaign” or “funnel” because the advertising
is designed to funnel (i.e., drive) customers to the service provider or product owner. Affiliate
marketing occurs in various business segments, including Internet Marketing (“IM’’), Business
Opportunities (“BizOp”’), Foreign Exchange (“Forex”), Binary Options, and Digital Assets.

33. A binary option is a type of option contract in which the payout depends entirely

on the outcome of a discrete event—usually a “yes/no” proposition. The yes/no proposition

11
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 12 of 54

typically relates to whether the price of a particular asset will rise above or fall below a specified
amount at a specified date and time. For example, the yes/no proposition might be whether the
price of silver will be higher than $33.40 per ounce at 11:17 am on a particular day, or if the
exchange rate between the US Dollar and the Euro will be above $1.18 at 2:15 pm on a given
day.

34. Once the option holder acquires a binary option through payment of a premium,
there is no further decision for the holder to make as to whether to exercise the binary option
because binary options exercise automatically. Unlike other types of options, a binary option
does not give the holder the right to purchase or sell the underlying asset—instead, it is “cash
settled.” When the binary option expires, the option holder is entitled to a pre-determined
amount of money if the customer has made a correct prediction. If the customer has made an
incorrect prediction, he or she gets nothing and loses the entire premium paid.

35. “Digital assets” is defined here as a digital representation of value that functions
as a medium of exchange, a unit of account, and/or a store of value, but does not have legal
tender status in any jurisdiction. The digital assets relevant to this complaint primarily involve
Bitcoin, but also to some extent Ethereum. These and other digital assets are distinct from “real”
currencies, which are the coin and paper money of the United States or currencies of other
countries that are issued, designated and circulated as legal tender, and customarily used and
accepted as a medium of exchange.

B. Defendants’ Roles in the Fraudulent Solicitation Schemes

1. Binary Options Scheme (October 2013-November 2016)

 

a. Fingerhut’s Role (June 2014-October 2016)

36. During much of the Binary Options Period, as an affiliate marketer and an

unregistered Associated Person (“AP”) of AIP, an unregistered Commodity Trading Advisor
12
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 13 of 54

(“CTA”), Fingerhut solicited customers and prospective customers to open and fund trading
accounts using Trading Systems that would purportedly automatically trade on their behalf in
binary options involving forex, metals, commodities, swaps, and other underlying assets.

37. Fingerhut did so by creating and/or disseminating solicitations that included
materially false or misleading statements advising prospective customers to open an account and
trade binary options with automated trading software through brokers that agreed to pay AIP and
DPL commission for at least twenty campaigns: (1) Push Button Millionaire (February 2014-
September 2015); (2) Auto Money App (“AMA”) (June 2014-July 2015); (3) Cash Code (“CC’’)
(June 2014-April 2016); (4) Free Money System (“FMS”) (June 2014); (5) Free Money App
(June 2014-June 2015); (6) Quick Cash System (June 2014-May 2016); (7) Easy Money
Machines (June 2014-June 2015); (8) Free Cash (July 2014-October 2015); (9) Secret
Millionaire Society (October 2014-June 2015); (10) Cash Software (October 2014-December
2014); (11) Money Platform (January 2015); (12) Push Button Commissions (January 2015-
April 2015); (13) Copy Op (February 2015-May 2015); (14) Copy Trade Profit (April 2015);
(15) Binary Cash Creator (“BCC”) (May 2014-March 2015); (16) Free Millionaire System (May
2015); (17) Easy Money Method (May 2015); (18) Fast Cash (October 2015-June 2016); (19)
Push Money App (“PMA”) (June 2016- October 2016); and (20) Click Money System (“CMS’’)
(October 2016).

38. Among other things, Fingerhut sent bulk email solicitations designed to entice the
recipients to click an embedded electronic link in the email that routed the user to AIP’s and
DPL’s binary options campaign websites, including but not limited to the twenty campaigns
identified in Paragraph 37. The websites generally included some variation of the campaign

name like http://automoneyapp.com for AMA or http://fastcash.biz for Fast Cash.

 

13
39. Fingerhut opened and/or used autoresponders for or on behalf of AIP to send out

fraudulent email solicitations to hundreds of thousands of prospective customers and customers
at the same time.

AO. The email solicitations contained an embedded link that directed the prospective
customers and customers to AIP’s corresponding campaign websites. The websites generally
contained multiple webpages, including a landing page, members’ page, and registration page.
The landing pages for AIP’s and DPL’s binary options campaigns all included a sales video
created or procured by AIP or DPL.

4}. As part of his duties at AIP, Fingerhut tested the links embedded in the
solicitation emails to ensure that the recipients would be directed to the proper campaign website
and to make sure that the sales videos streamed automatically once a customer accessed the
website through the link in the email. In the process, Fingerhut viewed the sales videos.

42. The binary options solicitations that Fingerhut created and/or disseminated
advised customers and prospective customers to open and fund a binary options trading account
with a “recommended broker” so that they could obtain free access to the offered Trading
System. The solicitations further promised that the Trading Systems activated and began
accumulating profits automatically once the customers opened and funded their trading account.

43. Fingerhut admitted that the solicitations he created and/or disseminated on behalf
of AIP included false or misleading statements as to profit, risk, users’ experience with the
trading systems, the background and experience of the creators of the trading systems, and
performance of the trading systems.

44. The fraudulent solicitations were designed to: (1) capture potential customers’

attention; (11) entice them to enter their personal information on the campaign websites AIP

14
owned or operated; and (iii) click through the funnel to open and fund a trading account with a
broker that DPL, through Valariola and Barak, directed them to, mainly by promising free access
to Trading Systems with no risk and guaranteed profits.

45. In those instances where Fingerhut only disseminated, but did not create AIP’s
solicitations, he knew that those emails and videos also included false or misleading statements.

A6. Some of the solicitation materials created and/or disseminated by Fingerhut
explicitly referenced the underlying asset for binary options as commodities like metals, forex,
and/or swaps. Other solicitations depicted screenshots showing those assets as available to trade
and/or as having been traded using the marketed Trading Systems.

47. For example, the Fast Cash sales video that Fingerhut distributed featured actors
who pretended to be the “creators” of that Trading System who claimed that it had made them
over $55 million. The video shows a screenshot of one of their purported trading accounts, with
a pending binary options transaction involving EUR/USD, along with other currency pairings
displayed in the ticker. Another minute in, the “creators” remind viewers that the clock is
ticking to take advantage of their offer if they want a “real chance to get hands on software that
makes big money like this,” and then the video shows a screenshot of the other creator’s account
with a similar upcoming expiry on the binary options EUR/USD transaction, along with
reference to other binary option assets that are “hot” including currencies and commodities,
indices, and stocks.

48. Other videos, including but not limited to the videos for the Free Money System,
Cash Code, and Push Money App campaigns, similarly display screenshots of executed binary
options in forex and reference to commodities as an available asset to trade using the marketed

Trading System.

15
b. DPL’s Role (October 2013-November 2016)

49, Between at least October 2013 and November 2016, DPL, through Valariola and
Barak, and others, willfully aided and abetted AIP’s binary options solicitation scheme,
including for at least twenty-four (24) fraudulent binary options campaigns, including the twenty
(20) campaigns in which Fingerhut participated (identified in Paragraph 37, supra), and four (4)
additional campaigns prior to June 2014: (1) Automated Income App (late 2013/early 2014); (2)
Golden Goose Method (“GG”) (January 2014-March 2014); (3) Binary Pilot (~February 2014);
and (4) Rock Star Commissions (March 2014).

50. Specifically, DPL, through Valariola, Barak and others knew that the binary
options solicitations AIP created and disseminated included false or misleading statements. For
example, Valariola procured two sales videos (at least one of which was created by a video
producer in the United States with a script provided by Valariola), which he gave to AIP for use
in the GG and Rock Star Commissions binary options campaigns.

51. The sales video for GG included materially false or misleading statements,
including where the “creator” of the marketed Trading System repeatedly stresses the ease of
earning profits automatically by reference to fake results of a fictitious user:

e “T put $200 in here to start, I fired up the software and took my wife out for breakfast.

When I got home and checked the account and there was already $390 in it.”

e “A profit of $4550 streamed into my account [since the day before] while I spent the day
playing with my wife.”

52. Valariola and Barak, on behalf of DPL, knew that the sales videos AIP created
after GG (mostly with the same video producer) that did not come from DPL followed the same

model and were similarly fabricated by Atkinson or a copywriter. Valariola and Barak also

16
knew that AIP’s solicitations did not reflect real people’s results from use of the marketed
Trading System that they supplied because they did not provide that information to AIP.

53. DPL, through Valariola and Barak, and others, also supplied the marketed
Trading Systems knowing that the systems did not operate as depicted in AIP’s solicitations.

54. DPL, through Valariola and Barak, served as a liaison with the brokers and
encouraged brokers to review AIP’s false or misleading solicitations to hone their sales pitch
when following up on Fingerhut’s and AIP’s leads to increase the number of conversions and
resulting commissions.

55. Specifically, DPL, through Valariola, Barak, and DPL’s other agents, officers,
and employees, worked with brokers to make sure that their sales representatives were ready to
“convert” prospective customers directed to them through AIP’s marketing campaigns, into
customers.

56. For example, before AIP and DPL launched a binary options campaign, Valariola
disseminated links to the campaign website to the brokers, including brokers in the United
States, with instructions for them to watch the sales video and try the Trading System “so they’Il
know how to attack it and get the right bullets” when speaking with potential customers.

57. Valariola also disseminated to brokers, including brokers in the United States,
emails from AIP, who he identified as “my partner,” explaining the marketing strategy for the
binary options campaign. One such email from September 2015 revealed that AIP spent over
$50,000 on the sales video and used the “best copy writer money can buy (think movie
scripts/infomercial status).”

58. DPL, through Valariola and Barak, also managed the broker relationships and

distributed commissions from the brokers to AIP’s account in the United States. The brokers

17
that DPL selected for AIP’s binary options campaigns, including at least one in the United
States, agreed to pay a pre-determined, flat commission, generally between $350 and $450 for
every “first time depositor’ (“FTD’’) resulting from the campaign solicitations. Brokers also
generally required a customer to deposit at least $250 to open a trading account in order for a
customer to qualify as a FTD, but brokers continued soliciting customers to deposit additional
funds after they opened an account, which is how the brokers benefitted from the relationship.
Brokers paid DPL and then DPL shared the profits with AIP, or at times brokers paid AIP
directly at DPL’s direction.

59. DPL managed the backend operations for the binary options affiliate marketing
campaigns, including by routing the customers from AIP’s campaign website to the broker
websites. For example, in February 2014, Barak agreed to send one broker in the United States
“U.S. traffic, you want to get as much as we can send you starting upcoming Monday.”

60. DPL also tracked progress of AIP’s campaigns and created and sent AIP weekly
reports via email that showed leads, customers, traders, conversion rates and AIP’s earnings per
campaign, among other things. DPL collected commission from the brokers and paid AIP its
portion of the proceeds in bank accounts in the United States or directed brokers to pay a certain
amount to AIP directly based on those weekly reports.

61. DPL also assured brokers, including at least one broker in the United States in
January 2016, that they would handle all customer issues related to the trading software through
DPL’s service representatives who would “manage every error, bug, question that users have so
your sales will not spend any time dealing with that and do what they do best—-making them

deposit.”

18
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 19 of 54

2. Digital Assets Fraud (October 2016-August 2018)

 

62. During the Digital Assets Period, Digital Platinum Defendants, through Fingerhut
and others that he supervised, engaged in a fraudulent solicitation scheme similar to the one
carried out at AIP, but focused on digital assets instead of binary options.

63. Specifically, on behalf of the Digital Platinum Defendants, Fingerhut and others
that he supervised, created and disseminated tens of millions of solicitations that included
materially false or misleading statements advising prospective customers and/or customers to
open and fund a digital assets trading account and trade digital assets and/or digital assets
options (swaps) off-exchange through an unregistered broker using the offered DA Trading
System, which would purportedly automatically trade digital assets and/or options on digital
assets automatically on their behalf. The solicitations further advised that the DA Trading
Systems began accumulating profits right away once the account was funded and set up with just
a couple of clicks.

64. Fingerhut did this for at least eleven campaigns during the Digital Assets Period,
including: (1) Crypto Shield; (2) Bitcoin Code;(3) Ethereum Code; (4) The Crypto Software; (5)
Symantic Investment App; (6) Crypto Tonics Lab; (7) Bitcoin Trader; (8) Bitcoin Focus Group;
(9) Crypto Genius; (10) Kryptonex labs; and (11) Bitcoin Loophole.

65. During the Digital Assets Period, Digital Platinum Defendants, through their
employees, officers, owners, and agents, including Fingerhut, handled the marketing, broker
intermediary, and backend roles. Fingerhut managed Digital Platinum Defendants’ affiliate
marketing program from DPI’s offices in Florida, or by working out of his home in Miami
Beach, Florida.

66. Fingerhut hired, directed, and/or supervised at least four individuals in Florida

and one individual in Israel to write solicitation emails and disseminate them in bulk through
19
autoresponders that he and others he supervised created for the digital assets campaigns. Just
like his binary options activities for AIP, when Fingerhut wrote digital assets solicitation emails,
he fabricated profits and performance results based on fictional accounts of fictitious characters’
use of the DA Trading System that was marketed; Fingerhut directed those that he supervised to
do the same.

67. DPL and Huf, through Valariola, Barak, and others acting on their behalf,
managed the backend, supplied the marketed DA Trading Systems, worked directly with the
brokers, tracked progress of the campaigns and handled payments to DPI and its employees and
agents, including Fingerhut.

68. Digital Platinum Defendants’ digital assets campaigns operated the same way as
the previous binary options campaigns at AIP. Fingerhut and others that he supervised created
and/or disseminated mass email solicitations using autoresponders. Those emails included an
embedded link that directed anyone who clicked it to the corresponding digital assets campaign
website operated by DPL and/or Huf through an affiliate network controlled by Valariola and
Barak called Roi Boutique. Upon arrival at the landing page for each campaign, a sales video
automatically played to further persuade a prospective customer and/or customer to open and
fund a digital assets trading account.

69. Fingerhut and others he supervised used more than ten autoresponders on behalf
of Digital Platinum Defendants during the Digital Assets Period. On average, five auto
responders were used on a daily basis and, on average, each autoresponder contained around
two-hundred thousand (200,000) email addresses obtained by Digital Platinum Defendants and

used as leads for their digital assets solicitation campaigns.

20
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 21 of 54

70. Digital Platinum Defendants’ websites generally included some variation of the

 

campaign name like http://thecryptosofware.co/ for the Crypto Software campaign or

http://ethereumcode.net/index.php for the Ethereum Code campaign.

 

71. The landing pages for Digital Platinum Defendants’ digital assets campaigns all
included a sales video that streamed automatically. As part of his duties, Fingerhut tested the
links embedded in the solicitation emails to ensure that the recipients would be directed to the
proper campaign website and to make sure that the sales videos streamed automatically once a
customer accessed the website. In doing so, Fingerhut viewed the sales videos.

72. Brokers selected by DPL and/or Huf for the digital assets campaigns agreed to
pay a pre-determined, flat commission resulting from each new customer that opened and funded
a digital assets trading account (““FTD”) as a result of Digital Platinum Defendants’ solicitations.
Brokers also generally required a customer to deposit at least $250 to open a trading account and
qualify as a FTD.

3. Defendants’ False or Misleading Solicitations
a. AIP’s Fraudulent Binary Options Solicitations

73. AIP, through Fingerhut and others, intentionally or recklessly created and/or
procured false or misleading email solicitations and follow-ups (known as “swipes”’) and sales
videos for each of the binary options campaigns that it launched with DPL’s assistance.

74. As described above, DPL, through Valariola and Barak, knew or willfully
disregarded that the swipes and sales videos that AIP created and disseminated for its binary
options campaigns included false or misleading information about the Trading System and
purported users’ experiences with and profits resulting from the Trading System, particularly
since DPL did not share results of any Trading System with AIP for AIP to include in its

solicitations.
21
ary *y > eo PNA Renn mh i ooPN coe f ’ rye Saree VO moa
e :20-cv-21887-BPG Document. Enterecion FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Rage 22 of 54
75. The swipes created and/or disseminated by Fingerhut contained numerous false or

misleading statements about the advertised Trading Systems, e.g., that customers can and have
already “made millions” trading with the Trading Systems, or that customers made hundreds in
profits in seconds, thousands in a day, and became millionaires in a few months. AIP’s swipes
prior to June 2014 included the same false or misleading statements about the Trading Systems.

76. When Fingerhut wrote swipes for AIP, he made up profits and performance
results instead of referring to real users’ experiences with the marketed Trading Systems.
Fingerhut also created the appearance of fake urgency in the solicitation emails by stressing that
spots are limited (“Only 50 people around the world are accepted each month’’) or “time is
running out” and “this download link expires in 24 hours.” Prior to June 2014, others at AIP
similarly included fake profits, performance results, and false urgency in the swipes.

77. Fingerhut knew that the swipes prepared by others for AIP also included
materially false or misleading information about profits, trading results, background and
experience of the creators of the Trading Systems, and/or purported users’ experience with the
Trading Systems.

78. Even though Fingerhut and others at AIP sent the swipes to prospective
customers and customers, those emails often appeared as though the fictional character(s) who
were depicted in the corresponding sales video sent the communications. In other instances, the
emails appeared to come from the fake owner or support department of the advertised Trading
System so the solicitation looked more persuasive and credible.

79. For example, Fingerhut worked on the Push Money App (“PMA”) campaign by
creating and disseminating false or misleading email solicitations and testing the link to the sales

video. The following swipe from on or about February 23, 2016 exemplifies solicitations

22
Fingerhut and others at AIP disseminated for the PMA campaign, which references a fake “PMA
company” and was signed by fake founders of the fake PMA company:
We have just closed a special deal with one of our major brokers. Everyone
that registers their PMA App today gets a matching deposit bonus .. . up to
$10k if you’re so fortunate . . . Just in the past 24 hrs the PM App has made the
new members a combined $118,927.36. Just in the last 24hrs! My friend, you
are missing out on serious money if you haven’t activated your app yet. I know
last year you were scammed with Binary Options bots. Trust me, this is not one
of those scams. Not even close. PMA Company received the Most Profitable
Trading System award at the NY convention of 2015. Yes we are a real legit
company that really wants to help you become filthy rich.
There were no new members who earned over $118,000 in 24 hours, no 2015 convention, and
there was never a company called PMA Company. Fingerhut knew that the trading results of
purported users in the PMA emails were fake.

80. In May 2016, AIP, through Fingerhut and others, sent various emails to a disabled
veteran in the United States living on disability payments, reminding the recipient to fund a
trading account “to make possibly 7 figures in 180 days just like our first group of beta testers!”
One email stressed the “limited availability” of PMA and urged that customer to fund his
account “so you'll be able to start making money right away.” These emails included fake
trading profits and false time and availability restrictions, all of which Fingerhut knew was
regularly included in AIP’s solicitations despite the fact that the information was not true.

81. In addition to false statements in the email solicitations Fingerhut created or
disseminated, Fingerhut knew that all of the binary options campaign websites featured at least
one sales video that depicted a fictional story about a Trading System portrayed by paid actors

representing fictional characters making false or misleading statements about the Trading

System’s trading results, risk of loss, experience of the founders, and profits earned. The videos

23
also included props like luxury vehicles, a private jet, and mansions—all rented to create the
video and not in fact owned or purchased by any user of the advertised Trading System.

82. Fingerhut knew that the stories depicted in AIP’s sales videos were fabricated by
Atkinson or a copywriter and did not reflect real people’s results from use of the marketed
Trading Systems.

83. In fact, none of AIP’s binary options sales videos involved real users or creators
of the advertised Trading System. As scripted, and as Fingerhut knew, the actors brazenly lied
in the videos about their role and the fictional story line. For example, the SMS video included
the following false statements delivered by an actor:

See anyone can throw numbers around and whip up some proof shots. All the
scamers [sic] doit. This isn’t that. This is a completely different playing
field. And you’re going to see real proof... you can’t deny...and...ina

way you ’ve never seen before in your life.

Everything I’m about to tell you is 100% real and was experienced by me
firsthand.

All of these statements were fabricated.

84. Historical and/or live trading results depicted in AIP’s sales videos were also
fake. For example, the sales video for CC portrays “Robert Allen” as the star. Allen, a doctor,
apparently received the CC System from a “true billionaire” and “financial mogul’ on his
deathbed after Allen cared for him in the hospital. The sales video shows screenshots of Allen’s
trading account from July 2009 through August 2009 and also a “live” video of the account with
big red letters across the screen, “LIVE ONLINE PROOF.” Allen explains that he “just”
deposited $250 “risk-free” into his account and he will “show you the money it makes LIVE
over the next 60 seconds. We can back up every word we say with real life results.” The sales

video shows the account increasing nine times then settling at $356,910 in the span of one

24
minute. However, Robert Allen was a fictional character portrayed by an actor, there was no
billionaire mogul creator, and Allen had no trading account from 2009 or any trading profits
from the CC System.
85. AIP’s sales videos also purported to guarantee profits by using the “risk-free”
Trading System:
The AMA campaign promised:
In sum total... we know... . you will be earning at least $300,000 per month—
also known as .. . $3.6 million dollars per year . . . starting just 30 days from
now ... just as sure as | plus | equals 2. Gosh, I love numbers! These are
mathematical certainties ....
The Auto Money App only picks winning trades .... These brokers only
work for the Auto Money App and they are designed to make sure your initial
deposit turns you into a millionaire in 90 days or less.
SMS includes:
And when you do get to the end of this video, you will also be rewarded with a
guaranteed $1000 in your first 60 seconds and $10,000 in your first two days

for free. ... There will be no losses. None at all.

b. Fingerhut’s & Digital Platinum Defendants’ Digital Assets
Fraudulent Solicitations

86. Digital Platinum Defendants, through Fingerhut and others at his direction,
intentionally or recklessly created and/or procured false or misleading swipes for each of its
digital assets campaigns during the Digital Assets Period.

87. The swipes created and/or disseminated by Fingerhut and others that he
supervised, contained numerous false or misleading statements about the advertised DA Trading
Systems.

88. Fingerhut’s swipes generally referred to the digital assets involved, most often
Bitcoin, and explained that the DA Trading System resulted in profits regardless of what

happened to the price of Bitcoin and without the customer needing to purchase any Bitcoin. The
25
sales videos further showed screenshots of executed transactions that purported to reflect trading
in digital assets and also options (swaps) involving digital assets.

89. Fingerhut admitted that when he wrote swipes, he fabricated profits and
performance results instead of referring to real users’ experiences with the marketed DA Trading
Systems. He also instructed the individuals he supervised to do the same and/or he provided the
content for them to disseminate (as was the case with the Israeli employee who reported to
Fingerhut). Fingerhut, and others under his supervision, also created the fake appearance of
urgency in the solicitation emails by stressing that spots are limited (e.g., “this new members’
group is limited to only 100 new members’).

90. Fingerhut further admitted that all the emails/swipes he wrote or that others under
his supervision wrote for Digital Platinum Defendants were based on fictional accounts of
fictitious characters’ use of the offered DA Trading System. Fingerhut boasted to Passerino that
the swipes that were most successful in persuading individuals to open and fund digital assets
trading accounts were the ones he created.

91. For example, in or around November 2017, Fingerhut directed an agent or
employee of DPI to disseminate email solicitations for Digital Platinum Defendants’ Bitcoin
Code campaign, while intentionally or recklessly disregarding that they included the following
materially false or misleading statements:

Kelly Jones writes about this system that delivers huge gains no matter what
the price [of Bitcoin] does.

You see, there is a system that will deliver results no matter how high or low
Bitcoin goes .... I estimate that if you start now in a month you can be sitting
on at least $20K. Yes, it is a high number but that is what I took in after a
month of using this system.

Here’s what is about to happen the second you activate your auto-generating
profit account. There is [sic] over 1,000 people just like you using this system

26
every single day earning thousands in profits. And don’t be

intimidated .... Because you do NOT need any previous experience or any
tech skills. The system does 100% everything for you. It is so easy to make
money from this anyone can do it including you.... You start right now, by
this time tomorrow you will have the money already in your account ready to
be spent. Yes, it works that fast....

All of these statements concerning profits and users’ experience with the DA

Trading System were fictitious in that they were not based on actual performance of the system

or any real person’s profits resulting from same.

Similarly, the swipes Fingerhut and/or his team created and used for another

Digital Platinum Defendants’ Bitcoin campaign included the following materially false or

misleading statements:

Had you started using our system just one month you’d be sitting on a
minimum of $400,000 in profit. Isn’t it amazing.

But thanks to our revolutionary system, you can profit with bitcoin with zero
risk.

I would take action fast as this new members group is limited to only a hundred
new members who want too fast track their success.

As of right now our system has created 2903 first time millionaires in 2017
with nine more members about five days away from hitting the millionaire
mark! .... Recently we reopened the enrollment and everyone who joins in
2017 we can guarantee you'll become a millionaire in 2018

[Y ]ou have come this far in the process and have been given a spot to join our
team, let me remind you each of our members is earning $13,000 per day or
more.

[Y]Jou activate your account now within exactly 24 hours your payout will be at
least 13,000 period. Every single day you will receive this amount or

More....

Fingerhut knew that all of the statements in this swipe were fictitious in that they

were not based on real users’ experience with the marketed DA Trading System and there was

no basis to include the “guarantee” of profits.

27
95. The swipes Fingerhut and his team created and used for the Crypto Software
(//thecryptosoftware.co/) digital assets campaign in or around January 2018 included the
following materially false or misleading statements:

[I]t only took 29 days for the last 23 people who joined to start getting daily
gains over $20,000.

Mark my words... you will NEVER get the gains you get from the system I
am about to show you. There is no way you can earn 13K a day by buying
coins. The number above is exactly how much you will gain each day by using
my system. Plus it requires no experience and can be generating big profits for
you automatically.

All of the statements in this swipe were similarly fictitious.

96. Fingerhut included all of the materially false or misleading statements in the
swipes (or directed others to do so) disseminated on behalf of Digital Platinum Defendants to
induce prospective customers to sign up so that he and the Digital Platinum Defendants could
earn compensation and/or commissions.

97. Fingerhut’s email solicitations for all of Digital Platinum Defendants’ digital
assets campaigns included an embedded link to the campaign websites, which each featured an
automatically streaming sales video that depicted a fictional story about a DA Trading System
portrayed by paid actors representing fictional characters making false or misleading statements
about the system’s trading results, risk of loss, experience of the founders, and profits earned.

98. Fingerhut viewed Digital Platinum Defendants’ sales videos as part of the process
of testing the links in the solicitation emails. Fingerhut knew that the stories depicted in the
digital assets sales videos were fabricated and did not reflect real people’s results from use of the
marketed DATrading System.

99. For example, the Bitcoin Code sales video described how “anyone can make an

excess of $13,000 in just 24 hours” using the software that trades Bitcoin without buying it with

28
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 29 of 54

‘‘an unheard of 99.4% accuracy, which means it’s virtually impossible to lose.” The video
shows fake “LIVE” demonstrations that include screen shots of 126 executed options
transactions, which resulted in only 3 losses. The video also includes three fictitious
testimonials, one of which claimed to have earned $400,000 using the DA Trading System in
thirty-seven days, another claiming to have earned over $750,000 in two months.

C. Defendants Scammed Tens of Thousands of Individuals

100. Tens of millions of individuals received AIP’s and Digital Platinum Defendants’
fraudulent solicitations and the fraudulent campaigns were successful.

101. For example, during a portion of the Binary Options Period, between January
2014 and June 2016, at least 51,917 new customers, some of which were US customers, opened
and funded binary options trading accounts at brokers in connection with fraudulent campaigns
that DPL aided and abetted; at least 42,945 of those customers opened and funded binary options
trading accounts in connection with fraudulent campaigns that Fingerhut participated in from
June 2014 to June 2016.

102. During the Digital Assets Period, at least 8,043 customers opened and funded
digital assets or digital assets options trading accounts at brokers in connection with Digital
Platinum Defendants’ fraudulent campaigns that Fingerhut participated in.

103. The amount of money customers deposited when opening a new account varied.
For the binary options and digital assets campaigns, customers were generally required to
deposit at least $250 initially. Therefore, the 51,917 customers that opened new binary options
trading accounts at brokers between January 2014 and June 2016 deposited at least $12,979,250
in trading accounts as a result of AIP’s fraudulent solicitations. Similarly, the 8,043 customers

that opened new digital assets trading accounts between October 2016 and August 2018

29
deposited at least $2,010,772.95 as a result of Digital Platinum Defendants’ fraudulent
solicitations.

104. Brokers paid DPL and AIP a flat commission for each new funded binary option
account opened as a result of AIP’s fraudulent solicitations and DPL and AIP split the
commission between them. Between October 2013 and November 2016, DPL paid AIP
$17,300,780.50 for the binary options campaigns they launched together. AIP deposited over
$154,956 into Fingerhut Group’s bank account for Fingerhut’s services during the Binary
Options Period.

105. Between October 2016 and August 2018, DPI received $3,619,391.31 in
payments for its digital assets affiliate marketing activities, primarily from an account in the
name of Huf. The money deposited in a United States account in DPI’s name represents only a
portion of the commissions DPL and/or Huf earned as a result of DPI’s fraudulent solicitations.

106. During the Digital Assets Period, Fingerhut invoiced DPL, DPI, and Huf for the
affiliate marketing services he provided in connection with digital assets campaign and those
entities generally paid him through Fingerhut Group and/or Media Hut. Fingerhut received at
least $383,269.98 during the Digital assets Period from accounts in the name of DPL, DPI, and
Huf. Fingerhut’s compensation included a fixed base salary and since at least July 2017, he also
received approximately two percent (2%) of the commissions resulting from his (and his team’s)
fraudulent solicitations.

107. In the spring and summer of 2018, Fingerhut orchestrated a number of financial
transactions among entities he owned and controlled, including Fingerhut Group, Recruiting
Hut, and Media Hut. On June 29, 2018, Fingerhut withdrew the remaining balance in the

Fingerhut Group account, approximately $250,000, and transferred the funds to his Recruiting

30
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 31 of 54

Hut account. Fingerhut closed the Fingerhut Group account in July 2018 and used funds from
the Recruiting Hut account to pay off his mortgage in July 2018.

D. Fingerhut’s Materially False or Misleading Statements to the Commission
and Under Oath

108. On August 9, 2018, Staff sent via UPS an investigative subpoena and letters to
Fingerhut and his companies requesting that they retain, preserve, and safeguard against
destruction of all documents, communications and information related to the binary options and
digital assets fraud alleged here (““DND’’). The package also included a copy of the form
Statement to Persons Providing Information About Themselves to the Commission (“Statement to
Persons’), which advises parties of their duty to speak truthfully and potential penalties for
failing to do so.

109. Staff spoke with Fingerhut on a voluntary basis via telephone twice in August
2018 and once in September 2018. Fingerhut was not represented by counsel at those times. As
is Staff’s practice, before discussing any substantive matters, Staff advised Fingerhut of the ways
in which the Commission may use information provided to it, and that if he chose to speak with
Staff voluntarily, all statements must be truthful as there could be criminal and civil penalties for
making false or misleading statements to Staff. Fingerhut acknowledged Staff's warnings and
agreed to speak on a voluntary basis claiming that he wanted to cooperate.

110. After speaking with Fingerhut on August 20, 2018, Staff re-sent its original
subpoena and DNDs dated August 9 to Fingerhut, Fingerhut Group, and Media Hut via email,
attaching a copy of the Division’s Statement to Persons, which memorialized the warnings Staff
conveyed orally at the outset of the telephone conversation. Fingerhut confirmed receipt on

August 21, 2018 via email.

31
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 32 of 54

111. During the telephone conversations with Staff, Fingerhut provided information
about AIP, the Digital Platinum Defendants, and his role with those companies. Fingerhut also
agreed to prepare and sign a declaration that Staff could use during litigation in support of its
Motion for a Preliminary Injunction in the Atkinson case.

112. Fingerhut executed a declaration under penalty of perjury that Staff used as
evidence in its filing in September 2018. In October 2018, Fingerhut testified as a witness for
Staff during the subsequent preliminary injunction hearing. Atkinson, No. 18-cv-23992-JEM, at
ECF Nos. 65, 103.2.

113. The Division deposed Fingerhut in connection with the Atkinson litigation on
May 22, 2019. Fingerhut testified that he understood that his testimony and declaration were
made under oath.

1. Use & Deletion of Fingerhut’s Personal Email Accounts

 

114. Fingerhut told Staff during telephone conversations on August 20, 21, 2018 and
September 20, 2018, and later testified under oath, that the only email address he used to conduct

business for Digital Platinum Defendants was dan @digitalplatinum.com.

 

115. During Fingerhut’s deposition in connection with the Atkinson litigation in May
2019, Fingerhut repeated the assertion several times. He was asked, and he responded:

Q. Okay. So you didn’t use any other email addresses while at Digital
Platinum; right?

A. No.
Q. Or related to Digital Platinum work?
A. No.
116. However, Fingerhut routinely used his personal Gmail account for business

related to Digital Platinum Defendants, including to provide instructions to individuals he

32
supervised about email solicitations for digital assets campaigns, send and view Google Docs
that contained email solicitations for digital assets campaigns, and to access solicitation materials
in Dropbox. In fact, it was Fingerhut’s practice to ensure that a copy of Digital Platinum
Defendants’ email solicitations would be sent to his Gmail address during the Digital Assets
Period.

117. Fingerhut failed to disclose, search or produce any documents from that Gmail
account in response to the investigative and judicial subpoenas directed to him.

118. Onor about August 23, 2018, after speaking with Staff, receiving an investigative
subpoena and DND letters, and after Passerino notified him that DPI received a subpoena from
the CFTC that named Fingerhut, Fingerhut deleted and/or deactivated his personal Gmail
account. During his May 22, 2019 deposition, Fingerhut denied any recollection of deleting or
deactivating that account.

119. Fingerhut admitted, however, that in early 2019 he deleted a Hotmail account that
he used to conduct business at AIP and Digital Platinum Defendants. Fingerhut did so at least
five months after receiving the August 2018 investigative subpoena and DNDs and at least three
months after receiving a judicial subpoena in October 2018.

120. In response to those subpoenas, Fingerhut produced only a handful of documents
from the Hotmail account related to AIP business. However, Fingerhut sent or received
hundreds of emails related to AIP’s and DPL’s binary options or Digital Platinum Defendants’
digital assets affiliate marketing from his Hotmail account, all of which were relevant to the

August 2018 investigative subpoena and October 2018 judicial subpoena.

33
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 34 of 54

2. Fingerhut’s Direct & Integral Role in Digital Platinum Defendants’ Fraud

121. Fingerhut made false or misleading statements to Staff and in his sworn
declaration to conceal the nature and extent of his integral role in Digital Platinum Defendants’
digital assets fraud and production of documents showing same.

122. During telephone conversations with Staff, Fingerhut described his role related to
trading or digital assets email solicitations at DPI as low-level, merely reporting to and following
instructions from Passerino.

123. In his sworn declaration, Fingerhut averred that although he participated in hiring
certain individuals to work at DPI, none of those individuals were involved in creating or
disseminating solicitations for campaigns related to trading or digital assets: “Those individuals
were hired to develop and design an email marketing system and an interactive sports game app
for the NBA/WNBA.”

124. During Fingerhut’s deposition, Fingerhut confirmed (until confronted with
contradictory evidence) that this statement was true and accurate and went even further:

Q. Did you hire anyone that was involved in writing swipes?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Did you hire anyone who was involved in sending out emails
through auto responders for CFD or virtual currency or any other trading
campaigns?

A. No.

125. However, Fingerhut did in fact recruit, hire, train, and supervise individuals on
behalf of the Digital Platinum Defendants to assist him with writing swipes and sending out

emails solicitations through autoresponders for digital assets and other trading campaigns.

34
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 35 of 54

3. Fingerhut’s Laptop

 

126. Fingerhut testified at the Atkinson PI hearing that he quit his job at DPI on his
birthday in 2018 and gave the laptop computer that he used for DPI business to Passerino that
same day by handing it to Passerino at Fingerhut’s home. Atkinson, No. 18-cv-23992-JEM, at
ECF Nos. 103.2, 136.1.

127. Passerino failed to turn over the laptop to the appointed receiver or Staff as
ordered by the Court during the Atkinson litigation. Relying on Fingerhut’s testimony regarding
the laptop, Staff filed a Motion for Rule to Show Cause (“RTSC’’) why Passerino should not be
held in contempt for failing to produce the laptop, among other things, on October 30, 2018. Id.
at ECF No. 103. As part of the RTSC proceedings, the CFTC identified, among other things,
“Dan Fingerhut’s computer which, according to Mr. Fingerhut’s uncontroverted testimony, he
personally handed to Passerino, along with all the username and password information to access
therein, on August 13, 2018.” Jd. at ECF No. 130 at 7-8, ECF 210 at { 4.

128. Passerino thereafter produced documents and provided information to Staff
contradicting Fingerhut’s statements. Staff engaged in additional discovery and discovered that
the laptop was purchased by Fingerhut and not DPI, Passerino was not at Fingerhut’s home on
his birthday in 2018, Fingerhut did not give his laptop to Passerino at his home on his birthday in
2018 or at any other time, Fingerhut had his laptop after he spoke with the CFTC (also after his
birthday in 2018), and Fingerhut also used a desktop at his home and his cell phone to conduct
Digital Platinum Defendants’ business, which he had omitted from discussions with the Division

and which he failed to produce.

35
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 36 of 54

129. When Passerino met with Fingerhut at his home after his birthday in 2018 and
notified him that the CFTC issued a subpoena directed at DPI that identified Fingerhut,
Fingerhut responded by saying that he would go on his boat and throw his laptop into the ocean.

130. During his deposition, Fingerhut repeated his false statement that he handed the
laptop he used while working at Digital Platinum Defendants to Passerino when he quit DPI on

his birthday in 2018.

VI. violations OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT AND REGULATIONS

COUNT I

Fingerhut’s, DPL’s, Valariola’s and Barak’s violations of Section 4c(b) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) (2018), and Regulation 32.4, 17 C.F.R. § 32.4 (2019)
(Options Fraud)

131. 7U-.S.C. § 6c(b) makes it unlawful for any person to offer to enter into, enter into,
or confirm the execution of, any transaction involving any commodity regulated under the Act
which is of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as, inter alia, an “option’, “bid”,
“offer”, “put”, or “call’’, contrary to any rule, regulation, or order of the Commission prohibiting
any such transaction or allowing any such transaction under such terms and conditions as the
Commission shall prescribe.

132. 17C.F.R. § 32.4 provides that, in or in connection with an offer to enter into, the
entry into, or the confirmation of the execution of, any commodity option transaction, it shall be
unlawful for any person directly or indirectly: (a) to cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or
defraud any other person; (b) to make or cause to be made to any other person any false report or

statement thereof or cause to be entered for any person any false record thereof; or (c) to deceive

or attempt to deceive any other person by any means whatsoever.

36
133. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 26, 36-48, 73, 75-85, 100-101, and 103-04,
between June 2014 and October 2016, Fingerhut, as an agent of AIP, intentionally or recklessly
created and/or disseminated fraudulent solicitations in emails, websites, and fictitious sales
videos promising free access to Trading Systems to induce prospective customers to open and
fund a binary options trading account with a recommended broker so that AIP could earn
commissions for twenty binary options campaigns.

134. Between June 2014 and October 2016, Fingerhut, by the conduct alleged in
paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 26, 36-48, 73, 75-85, 100-101, and 103-04, in or in connection with an
offer to enter into, the entry into, or the confirmation of the execution of, any commodity option
transaction directly or indirectly: (a) cheated or defrauded, and attempted to cheat and defraud,
customers and prospective customers; (b) made or caused to be made to customers and
prospective customers false reports or statements; and (c) deceived or attempted to deceive
customers and prospective customers, in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4.

135. As set forth in paragraphs 1-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-104, between October 2013 and November 2016, AIP, through the acts of its owners,
employees, agents, and/or employees, including Fingerhut’s acts between June 2014 and
October 2016, intentionally or recklessly created and/or disseminated fraudulent solicitations in
emails, websites, and fictitious sales videos promising free access to Trading Systems to induce
prospective customers to open and fund a binary options trading account with a recommended
broker so that AIP could earn commissions for twenty-four campaigns.

136. As set forth in paragraphs 1-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-104, between at least October 2013 and November 2016, AIP, through the acts of its

owners, employees, agents, and/or employees, including Fingerhut’s acts between June 2014 and

37
October 2016, in or in connection with an offer to enter into, the entry into, or the confirmation
of the execution of, any commodity option transaction directly or indirectly: (a) cheated or
defrauded, and attempted to cheat and defraud, customers and prospective customers; (b) made
or caused to be made to customers and prospective customers false reports or statements; and (c)
deceived or attempted to deceive customers and prospective customers, in violations of 7 U.S.C.
§ 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4.

137. As set forth in paragraphs 1-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-104, AIP violated 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4 through the acts of its owners,
officers, agents, and/or employees, including Fingerhut’s acts between June 2014 and October
2016, because Fingerhut’s conduct was within the scope of his employment, office or agency
with AIP. AIP is therefore liable for Fingerhut’s acts, omissions, and failures constituting
violations of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4 pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act,

7 U.S.C. § 2(a)C1)(B), and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2019).

138. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-04, between October 2013 and November 2016, DPL, through Valariola and Barak,
willfully aided and abetted AIP’s twenty-four fraudulent binary options campaigns by supplying
certain false sales videos, knowing AIP used similar false or misleading statements in video and
email solicitations that it created and disseminated to prospective customers, sharing those
solicitations with brokers and encouraging them to use them in the brokers’ further solicitations,
serving as an intermediary with the brokers, supplying the Trading Systems that did not operate
as marketed, and handling the commissions resulting from the fraud. Therefore, pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(a) (2016), DPL is liable for AIP’s violations of 7 U.S.C.

§ 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4.

38
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 39 of 54

139. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-04, between October 2013 and November 2016, Valariola and Barak willfully aided and
abetted AIP’s violations of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4 within the scope of their
employment, office or agency with DPL. DPL 1s therefore liable for Valariola’s and Barak’s
acts, omissions, and failures constituting violations of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4
pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) and 17 C.F.R. §1.2.

140. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 19-24, 49-61, 74, and 104, Valariola and Barak
controlled DPL throughout the relevant period, including between October 2013 and November
2016. Valariola and Barak failed to act in good faith and/or knowingly induced DPL’s violations
alleged herein. Valariola and Barak are therefore liable for DPL’s violations as controlling
persons pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b) (2018).

141. Each solicitation offering automated trading software that purported to trade
binary options automatically on behalf of customers is alleged as a separate and distinct violations
of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 32.4.

COUNT IL

Fingerhut’s violations of Section 40(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 60(1) (2018)
(CTA Fraud)

142. Section la(12)(A) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la(12)(A) (2018), in relevant part,
defines a CTA as any person who “for compensation or profit, engages in the business of
advising others, either directly or through publications, writings, or electronic media, as to the
value of or advisability of trading in” any commodity for future delivery, security futures
product, swap, and/or commodity option.

143. Between October 2013 and November 2016, AIP acted as an unregistered CTA

by advising others through email and video solicitations as to the value and advisability of

39
trading in binary options to earn commission from recommended brokers using automated
trading systems as set forth in Paragraphs 1-4, 6, 16, 26-27, 36-61, 73, 75-85, 100-101, and 103-
04.

144. Regulation 1.3(Associated Person)(4), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(Associated Person)(4)
(2019), in relevant part, defines an Associated Person of a CTA to include an employee or agent
of a CTA that is involved in the solicitation of a client’s or a prospective client’s discretionary
account.

145. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 26-27, 36-48, 73, 75-85, 100-101, and 103-
04, Fingerhut acted as an unregistered Associated Person of a CTA between June 2014 and
October 2016 because, as an employee or agent of AIP, he created and/or disseminated
solicitations to clients and prospective clients that advised them to: (1) trade in binary options;
(ii) with a recommended broker; (ii1) using automated trading software that would trade
automatically on their behalf; (iv) for compensation.

146. 7U.S.C. § 60(1) makes it unlawful for a CTA or Associated Person of a CTA,
using the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly:

(A) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any
client or participant or prospective client or participant; or

(B) to engage in any transaction, practice or course of business
which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or participant
or prospective client or participant.

147. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 36-48, 73, 75-85, and 100-101, Fingerhut
fraudulently solicited members of the public and created and/or disseminated fraudulent websites
and emails advising members of the public to open and fund binary options trading accounts

with a recommended broker to access the marketed Trading Systems that purported to trade

automatically on behalf of the client automatically. For each of AIP’s binary options campaigns,

40
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 41 of 54

including but not limited to the twenty (20) AIP launched that Fingerhut was involved with, the
solicitations repeatedly misrepresented, among other things: (1) hypothetical and fictitious
trading results as real results; (11) actors as true users of the Trading Systems; (111) the fictitious
experience, background and skill of the “creators” of the Trading Systems; and/or (iv) that the
testimonials reflected real users’ experiences.

148. Between June 2014 and October 2016, Fingerhut, by the conduct alleged in
paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 36-48, 73, 75-85, 100-101, and 103-104, while acting as an AP of a CTA,
used the instrumentalities of interstate commerce and: (a) employed numerous devices,
schemes, or artifices to defraud clients and prospective clients; and (b) engaged in transactions,
practices, and courses of business which operated as a fraud or deceit upon clients and
prospective clients, in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 60(1).

149. Each solicitation offering automated trading software that purported to trade
binary options automatically on behalf of customers is alleged as a separate and distinct violations
of 7 U.S.C. § 60(1).

COUNT Hil
Fingerhut’s and Digital Platinum Defendants’ violations of Section 6(c)(1) of the
Act,7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2018), and Regulation 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2019)
(Manipulative & Deceptive Device, Scheme or Artifice)

150. Section 1la(47)(A) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(47)(A) (2018), defines “swap” to
include, among other things, any agreement, contract, or transaction that: (a) is an option of any
kind; (b) provides for payment dependent on the occurrence, nonoccurrence, or the extent of the
occurrence of an event or contingency; or (c) provides on an executory basis for payments based

on the value or level of one or more interest or other rates, currencies, commodities, securities,

instruments of indebtedness, indices, quantitative measures, or other financial or economic

Al
interests or properly of any kind, without also conveying an ownership interest in any asset or
liability.

151. During the Binary Options Period (October 2013-November 2016), AIP, through
its owners, officers, employees, and/or agents, including Fingerhut during the period of June
2014 to October 2016, engaged in a fraudulent binary options scheme which offered free access
to Trading Systems, which in turn traded binary options (swaps under the definition in the Act).
DPL willfully aided and abetted twenty-four (24) of those campaigns and Fingerhut participated
in twenty (20) between June 2014 and October 2016.

152. During the Digital Assets Period (October 2016-August 2018), Fingerhut and
Digital Platinum Defendants, through the acts of Valariola, Barak, Fingerhut, and other owners,
officers, employees, and/or agents of Digital Platinum Defendants, engaged in eleven (11)
fraudulent digital assets campaigns which marketed free access to DA Trading Systems, which
in turn, traded digital assets, a commodity in interstate commerce under the Act, and options on
digital assets, a swap under the Act.

153. 7U.S.C. § 9(1) provides, in relevant part, “[i]t shall be unlawful for any person,
directly or indirectly, to use or employ or attempt to use or employ, in connection with any swap,
or a contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or
subject to the rules of any registered entity, any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance,
in contravention of such rules and regulations as the as the Commission shall promulgate . . .”

154. 17C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-G) provides, in relevant part, that it shall be unlawful for
any person, in directly or indirectly:

In connection with any swap, or contract of sale of any commodity in
interstate commerce, or contract for future delivery on or subject to the

rules of any registered entity, to intentionally or recklessly: (1) Use or
employ, or attempt to use or employ, any manipulative device, scheme, or

42
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 43 of 54

artifice to defraud; (2) Make, or attempt to make, any untrue or misleading
statement of materials fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in
order to make the statements made not untrue or misleading; (3) Engage,
or attempt to engage, in any act, practice, or course of business, which
operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person...

Binary Options Swaps Fraud

 

155. Between June 2014 and October 2016, as set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 36-
48, 73, 75-85, 100-101, and 103-104, Fingerhut, on behalf of AIP, intentionally or recklessly
created and/or disseminated fraudulent solicitations for at least twenty (20) of AIP’s binary
options campaigns that included materially false or misleading statements in emails, websites,
and fictitious sales videos promising free access to Trading Systems that purported to trade
automatically on behalf of the customer to induce prospective customers to open and fund a
binary options trading account with a recommended broker to earn commissions for AIP.

156. Between June 2014 and October 2016, Fingerhut, on behalf of AIP, by the
conduct alleged in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 36-48, 73, 75-85, 100-101, and 103-104, directly and
indirectly, in connection with binary options (swaps) intentionally or recklessly: (1) used or
employed, or attempted to use or employ, manipulative devices, schemes, and artifices to
defraud; (2) made, or attempted to make, untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or
omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make statements made not untrue or
misleading; and (3) engaged, or attempted to engage, in acts, practices, and courses of business,
which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon customers and prospective customers,
in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-G).

157. Between October 2013 and November 2016, as set forth in paragraphs 1-4, 6, 16,
19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and 103-104, AIP, through its owners, officers, employees,

and/or agents, including Fingerhut’s acts during the period of June 2014 to October 2016,

43
intentionally or recklessly created and/or disseminated fraudulent solicitations for at least
twenty-four (24) binary options campaigns that included materially false or misleading
statements in emails, websites, and fictitious sales videos promising free access to Trading
Systems that purported to trade automatically on behalf of the customer to induce prospective
customers to open and fund a binary options trading account with a recommended broker to earn
commissions for AIP.

158. AIP, by the conduct alleged in paragraphs 1-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85,
100-101, and 103-104, directly and indirectly, in or in connection with binary options (swaps),
intentionally or recklessly: (1) used or employed, or attempted to use or employ, manipulative
devices, schemes, and artifices to defraud; (2) made, or attempted to make, untrue or misleading
statement of a material fact or omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make
statements made not untrue or misleading; and (3) engaged, or attempted to engage, in acts,
practices, and courses of business, which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon
customers and prospective customers, in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R.

§ 180.1(a)(1)-G).

159. As set forth in paragraphs 1-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-104, between at least October 2013 and November 2016, AIP violated 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and
17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-G) through the acts of its owners, officers, agents, and/or employees,
including Fingerhut’s acts between June 2014 and October 2016 because Fingerhut’s conduct
was within the scope of his employment, office or agency with AIP. AIP is therefore liable for
Fingerhut’s acts, omissions, and failures constituting violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R.

§ 180.1(a)(1)-G) pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) and 17 C.F.R. §1.2.

44
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 45 of 54

160. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-04, between October 2013 and November 2016, DPL, through Valariola and Barak,
willfully aided and abetted AIP’s twenty-four (24) fraudulent binary options campaigns by
supplying certain false sales videos, knowing AIP used similar false or misleading statements in
video and email solicitations that it created and disseminated to prospective customers, sharing
those solicitations with brokers and encouraging their use in the brokers’ further solicitations,
serving as an intermediary with the brokers, supplying the Trading Systems that did not operate
as marketed, and handling the commissions resulting from the fraud. Therefore, pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(a) (2016), DPL is liable for AIP’s violations of 7 U.S.C.
§ 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-@).

161. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 16, 19-24, 26-27, 36-61, 73-85, 100-101, and
103-04, between October 2013 and November 2016, Valariola and Barak willfully aided and
abetted DPL’s violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3) within the scope of
their employment, office or agency with DPL. DPL is therefore liable for Valariola’s and
Barak’s acts, omissions, and failures constituting violations of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) and 17 C.F.R. §
32.4 pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) and 17 C.F.R. $1.2.

162. As set forth in paragraphs 2-4, 6, 19-24, 49-61, 74, and 104, Valariola and Barak
controlled DPL throughout the relevant period, including between October 2013 and November
2016. Valariola and Barak failed to act in good faith and/or knowingly induced DPL’s
violations alleged herein. Valariola and Barak are therefore liable for DPL’s violations as
controlling persons pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b) (2018).

Digital Assets Commodity and Swaps Fraud

 

45
163. Between October 2016 and August 2018, as set forth in paragraphs 5,6, 16, 19-
24, 62-72, 86-99, 100, and 102-106, Fingerhut intentionally or recklessly created and/or
disseminated fraudulent solicitations for at least eleven digital assets campaigns that included
materially false or misleading statements in emails, websites, and fictitious sales videos
promising free access to DA Trading Systems that purported to trade Bitcoin or Ethereum digital
assets and/or options involving those digital assets automatically on behalf of the customer to
induce prospective customers to open and fund a digital assets trading accounts with a
recommended broker to earn commissions for eleven (11) campaigns.

164. Between October 2016 and August 2018, as set forth in paragraphs 5,6, 16, 19-
24, 62-72, 86-99, 100, and 102-106, Fingerhut directly and indirectly, in connection with digital
assets and/or digital assets options intentionally or recklessly: (1) used or employed, or
attempted to use or employ, manipulative devices, schemes, and artifices to defraud; (2) made,
or attempted to make, untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or omitted to state
material facts necessary in order to make statements made not untrue or misleading; and (3)
engaged, or attempted to engage, in acts, practices, and courses of business, which operated or
would operate as a fraud or deceit upon customers and prospective customers, in violations of 7
U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3).

165. Between October 2016 and August 2018, the Digital Platinum Defendants,
through their owners, officers, employees and/or agents including Fingerhut, by the conduct
alleged in paragraphs 5,6, 16, 19-24, 62-72, 86-99, 100, and 102-106, intentionally or recklessly
created and/or disseminated fraudulent solicitations for at least eleven digital assets campaigns
that included materially false or misleading statements in emails, websites, and fictitious sales

videos promising free access to DA Trading Systems that purported to trade Bitcoin or Ethereum

46
digital assets and/or options involving those digital assets automatically on behalf of the
customer to induce prospective customers to open and fund a digital assets trading accounts with
a recommended broker to earn commissions for eleven (11) campaigns.

166. Between October 2016 and August 2018, the Digital Platinum Defendants,
through their owners, officers, employees and/or agents including Fingerhut, by the conduct
alleged in paragraphs 5,6, 16, 19-24, 62-72, 86-99, 100, and 102-106, directly and indirectly, in
or in connection with commodities in interstate commerce and/or swaps intentionally or
recklessly: (1) used or employed, or attempted to use or employ, manipulative devices, schemes,
and artifices to defraud; (2) made, or attempted to make, untrue or misleading statement of a
material fact or omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make statements made not
untrue or misleading; and (3) engaged, or attempted to engage, in acts, practices, and courses of
business, which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon customers and prospective
customers, in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3).

167. Between October 2016 and August 2018, Fingerhut’s acts, misrepresentations and
omissions occurred within the scope of his employment, office or agency with Digital Platinum
Defendants as set forth in paragraphs 5, 6, 16, 19-24, 62-72, 86-99, 100, 102-106. Therefore,
Digital Platinum Defendants are liable for his acts omissions, and failures constituting violations
of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3) pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) and 17
C.F.R. § 1.2.

168. As set forth in paragraphs 5, 6, 19-24, 49-61, 74, and 104, Valariola and Barak
controlled DPL, DPI and Huf throughout the relevant period, including between October 2016
and August 2018. Also as set forth in those paragraphs, Valariola and Barak failed to act in

good faith and/or knowingly induced DPL’s, DPI’s, and Huf’s violations alleged herein.

47
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 48 of 54

Valariola and Barak are therefore liable for Digital Platinum Defendants’ violations as
controlling persons pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b).

169. Each solicitation offering automated trading software that purported to trade
binary options, digital assets, or options on digital assets automatically on behalf of customers is
alleged as a separate and distinct violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3).

COUNT IV

Fingerhut’s False or Misleading Statements to the Commission Violated Section 6(c)(2) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(2) (2018)

170. 7U.S.C. § 9(2) provides, in relevant part, that it shall be unlawful for any person:
[T]o make any false or misleading statement of a material fact to the
Commission, including .. . any other information relating to a swap, or a
contract of sale of a commodity, in interstate commerce, or for future delivery
on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, or to omit to state in any
such statement any material fact that is necessary to make any statement of a
material fact made not misleading in any material respect, if the person knew,
or reasonably should have known the statement to be false or misleading.

171. Fingerhut intentionally or recklessly made various material false or misleading
statements and/or omissions to Staff during telephone conversations, in his signed declaration,
during his testimony at the Atkinson PI hearing, and during his deposition as set forth in
paragraphs 8, 16, and 108-130, in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(2).

172. For example, as set forth in paragraphs 108-113 and 114-120, Fingerhut falsely

represented to Staff in telephone conversations that the only email address he used for the Digital

Platinum Defendants’ business was dan @digitalplatinum.com. In fact, he regularly used a

 

second email, a Gmail account, to conduct Digital Platinum Defendants’ business and that email
account is where he received copies of fraudulent solicitations he created and/or disseminated for
Digital Platinum Defendants’ digital assets campaigns. Fingerhut failed to search that Gmail

account and produce relevant documents in response to an investigative and judicial subpoena.

48
Fingerhut deleted and/or deactivated the email account after speaking with Staff, receiving a
subpoena and do not destroy letters, and after being notified that DPI received a subpoena that
named him.

173. Similarly, as set forth in paragraphs 8, 108-113 and 121-125, Fingerhut included
materially false or misleading statements and omissions in his declaration and testified falsely
during his deposition as to the nature of his role in Digital Platinum Defendants’ digital assets
solicitation scheme. For example, Fingerhut lied about hiring individuals who were involved in
writing swipes and sending out email solicitations.

174. Likewise, as set forth in paragraphs 8, 108-113 and 126-130, Fingerhut falsely
testified that he handed the laptop he used while working with Digital Platinum Defendants to
Passerino at Fingerhut’s home on his birthday in 2018.

175. Fingerhut’s false or misleading statements or omissions were material because
they hindered Staff’s investigation, resulted in Staff taking legal action and making
representations to the Court, and were designed to conceal Fingerhut’s substantial and integral
role in Digital Platinum Defendants’ fraud and related evidence.

176. Each false or misleading statement or omission, including the three examples set

forth above, is alleged as separate and distinct violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(2).

VIL RELIEF REQUESTED

177. WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court, as
authorized by Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2018), and pursuant to the Court’s own
equitable powers:

a. Find that between June 2014 and October 2016 Fingerhut violated

Sections 4c(b), 40(1), and 6(c)(1) and (2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b),

49
‘ me 2 pe Le PN ms
She ract evs EDP Ch PN PRaebeent ME FNES F Sy Pb
Pees Ua aid t : PIAS ;

PM EAP Fb ch A at Ry ‘
4 ty s ek i
ML ADE LAE Asari

oe
at SPE ETE bet
X rrediife Sas GP oe
ets

bo,

60(1), 9(1), (2) (2018), and Regulations 32.4 and 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17
C.F.R. §§ 32.4, 180.1(a)(1)-G) (2019).

Enter an order of permanent injunction enjoining Fingerhut, his affiliates,
agents, servants, employees, successors, assigns, attorneys, and all
persons in active concert with him, who receives actual notice of such
order by personal service or otherwise, from engaging in the conduct
described above, in violations of 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b), 60(1), and 9(1) and (2)
and 17 C.F.R. §§ 32.4, 180.1(a)(1)-(3).

Find that between October 2013 and November 2016 Digital Platinum
Ltd., Valariola, and Barak aided and abetted AIP’s violations of 7 U.S.C.
8§ 6c(b), 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. §§ 32.4, 180.1(a)(1)-(3);

Enter an order of permanent injunction enjoining Valariola, Barak, Digital
Platinum Ltd., its affiliates, agents, servants, employees, successors,
assigns, attorneys, and all persons in active concert with them, who
receives actual notice of such order by personal service or otherwise, from
engaging in the conduct described above, in violations of 7 U.S.C.

8§ 6c(b), 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. §§ 32.4, 180.1(a)(1)-(3);

Find that between October 2016 and August 2018 Digital Platinum Ltd.,
Digital Platinum Inc., Huf Mediya Ltd. (a.k.a. Hoof Media Ltd.),
Valariola, and Barak violated 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. §
180.1(a)(1)-(3).

Enter an order of permanent injunction enjoining Digital Platinum

Limited, Digital Platinum Inc., Huf Mediya Ltd. (a.k.a. Hoof Media Ltd.),

50
Valariola, and Barak, their affiliates, agents, servants, employees,
successors, assigns, attorneys, and all persons in active concert with them,
who receive actual notice of such order by personal service or otherwise,
from engaging in the conduct described above, in violations of 7 U.S.C.
§ 9(1) and 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)C1)-(3).
Find that Relief Defendant Aicel Carbonero received assets and/or funds
to which she is not entitled.
Enter an order of permanent injunction prohibiting all Defendants and any
of their affiliates, agents, servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and
persons in active concert or participation with them, from directly or
indirectly:
i. Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as
that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 1a(40));
i. Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests”
(as that term is defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3
(2019)) for Defendants’ own personal accounts or for any
accounts in which Defendants have a direct or indirect interest;
ii. Having any commodity interests traded on their behalf;
iv. Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any
other person or entity, whether by power of attorney or

otherwise, in any account involving commodity interests;

51
o™ PNA Rr MRA - i ooPN coe f ’ rye Mase EO moa
2Pts Document i Entered on FLSD Docket Q5/05/2020 Rage 52 of bd
v. Soliciting, receiving or accepting any funds from any person

V1.

Vil.

for the purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity
interests;

Applying for registration or claiming exemption from
registration with the Commission in any capacity, and
engaging in any activity requiring such registration or
exemption from registration with the Commission, except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9)
(2019); and

Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation
3.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a) (2019)), agent or any other officer or
employee of any person (as that term is defined in Section la
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la) registered, exempted from
registration or required to be registered with the Commission

except as provided for in 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9).

Enter an order directing all Defendants and Relief Defendant, as well as any

third-party transferee and/or successors thereof, to disgorge to any officer

appointed or directed by the Court all benefits received including, but not

limited to, salaries, commissions, loans, fees, revenues, real and personal

property and trading profits derived, directly or indirectly, from acts or

practices that constitute violations of the Act and the Regulations, including

pre- and post-judgment interest;

52
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 53 of 54

j. Enter an order directing all Defendants, as well as any successors thereof, to
make full restitution to every person or entity whose funds Defendants
received or caused another person or entity to receive as a result of acts and
practices that constituted violations of the Act and the Regulations, as
described herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from the date of
such violations;

k. Enter an order directing each Defendant to pay civil monetary penalties, to be
assessed by the Court, in an amount not more than the penalty prescribed by
Section 6c(d)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(d)C1) (2018), as adjusted for
inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act
Improvements Act of 2015, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 584 (2015), title VII,
Section 701, see Commission Regulation 143.8, 17 C.F.R. § 143.8 (2019), for
each violations of the Act, as described herein;

|. Enter an order requiring all Defendants to pay costs and fees as permitted by
28 U.S.C. §§ 1920 and 2412(a)(2) (2018); and

m. Enter an Order providing such other and further relief as this Court may deem

necessary and appropriate.
Dated: May 5, 2020

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Allison V. Passman

 

Allison V. Passman, trial counsel
Special Bar ID #A5502489
Candice Haan, trial counsel
Special Bar ID#A5502564

53
Case 1:20-cv-21887-DPG Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/05/2020 Page 54 of 54

54

Susan Gradman, trial counsel
Special Bar ID #A5501721

Attorneys for Plaintiff
Commodity Futures Trading
Commission

525 W. Monroe St.
Chicago, IL 60661

Tel. (312) 596-0700

Fac. (312) 596-0714
apassman @ cftc.gov
seradman @ cftc.gov

chaan @cftc.gov

 

 
