 

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

Office of Proceedings
Proceedings Clerk

 

 

 

\2:23 am, Feb 12, 2018

CFTC Docket No. 18 — 10

In the Matter of:
AMP Global Clearing LLC,

Respondent.

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
AMP Global Clearing LLC (“Respondent”) violated Commission Regulation (“Regulation”)
166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2017). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine
whether Respondent engaged in the violation set forth herein and to determine whether any order
should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

I.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity
Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order’’) and acknowledges
service of this Order. '

 

' Respondent consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this proceeding and
in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, and agrees
that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Respondent
does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any
other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, other than a:
proceeding in bankruptcy, or receivership; or a proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondent does not
consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any
other proceeding.
Tit.

The Commission finds the following:

A. Summary

Between June 21, 2016, and April 17, 2017 (the “Relevant Period”), Respondent, a
registered futures commission merchant (“FCM”), failed to supervise diligently its information
technology provider’s (“IT Provider”) implementation of certain provisions in Respondent’s
written information systems security program (“ISSP”).” This failure left unprotected for nearly
ten months a significant amount of Respondent’s customers’ records and information and led to
the compromise of this data after Respondent’s information technology network (“network”) was
accessed by an unauthorized third party who was unaffiliated with Respondent (“Third Party”).°
Respondent’s failure to supervise its IT Provider’s implementation of its ISSP and consequent
failure to secure its customers’ records and information violated Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R.

§ 166.3 (2017).

a 3 3

In accepting AMP’s Offer, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s substantial
cooperation during the Commission Division of Enforcement’s investigation of this matter,
which included providing important information and analysis to the Division that helped the
Division to efficiently and effectively undertake this investigation. The civil monetary penalty
imposed on Respondent reflects Respondent’s cooperation. -

B. Respondent

AMP Global Clearing LLC has been registered as an FCM with the Commission since
2010. Its principal office is in Chicago, Illinois.

C. Facts

Respondent’s ISSP delegates implementation of certain provisions to the IT Provider
under the supervision of Respondent’s officers. The relevant ISSP provisions include:
(1) identifying and performing risk assessments of access routes into the network; (2) performing
quarterly network risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities and reporting those results to

 

* Respondent adopted its ISSP pursuant to Regulation 160.30, 17 C.F.R. § 160.30 (2017), which required it to
“adopt policies and procedures that address administrative, technical and physical safeguards for the protection of
customer records and information.” National Futures Association (“NFA”) Interpretive Notice 9070, effective
March 1, 2016, establishes general requirements relating to registrants’ ISSPs, and Commission Staff Advisory No.
14-21, issued February 26, 2014, enumerates recommended best practices for safeguarding customers’ records and
information.

* As discussed below, the Third Party contacted federal authorities about securing the compromised information,
and Respondent has represented that its internal investigation determined that the Third Party was the only
unauthorized third party who accessed the compromised information.
Respondent’s officers; (3) maintaining strict firewall rules to ensure access to the network only
from known Internet protocol addresses; and (4) detecting unauthorized activity on the network.

1. Respondent’s Network Vulnerability

_ On June 21, 2016, the IT Provider installed a network attached storage device (“NASD”)
in the network to store back-up data after recommending its purchase to Respondent. During its
installation, the IT Provider did not identify that the NASD featured remote replication of its
content files in real time through a software protocol known as “remote synchronization”
(“Rsync”). Rsynce can efficiently replicate files between NASDs over the Internet through
among other means an unencrypted Internet port in the NASD (“Rsync port”). In this particular
NASD series, the Rsync port was open by default, allowing permission-less access to the
NASD’s contents from the Internet.

Because the IT Provider did not identify or perform a risk assessment of the Rsync port
while installing the NASD in accord with the ISSP, an open access route from the Internet was
created through Respondent’s network firewall into the NASD. Contrary to the ISSP, this left
unprotected from cyber-exploitation unencrypted customers’ records and information stored on
the NASD. Despite this vulnerability, the IT Provider’s September and December 2016
quarterly network risk assessments erroneously informed Respondent’s officers that there were
no network security abnormalities or concerns based on the IT Provider’s periodic network
penetration tests, vulnerability scans, and firewall audits.

From December 2016 through March 2017, the Third Party and his colleagues made a
series of blogposts describing their access through the Rsync port to sensitive information stored
on NASDs used by organizations other than Respondent, including some from the same
manufacturer as relevant here. At least three of these incidents, involving commercial and
government records, were subsequently reported on cybersecurity related websites and in the
media. Despite these reports, the IT Provider’s third quarterly network risk assessment in March
2017 again failed to identify to AMP’s officers any network security concerns. In sum, contrary
to the ISSP, the IT Provider failed to identify, or perform a risk assessment of the Rsync port,
and failed to identify any network security concerns in its quarterly network risk assessments.

2. Compromise of Respondent’s Customers’ Records and Information

In late March 2017, the Third Party detected the open Rsync port in Respondent’s NASD
during an Internet search for network vulnerabilities. On April 10th, 2017, undetected by
Respondent, the Third Party copied approximately 97,000 files from the NASD. Many of these:
compromised files contained Respondent’s customers’ records and information including
personally identifiable information.

On April 17th, Respondent learned of the compromise from the Third Party and
immediately removed the NASD from its network while commencing an internal investigation to
assess the scope of the breach. On April 28th, Respondent reported the compromise to its
customers, NFA, and the Commission. Respondent has represented that, shortly thereafter,
Respondent’s internal investigation determined that the Third Party was the only unauthorized
third party who accessed the NASD. At approximately the same time, the Third Party contacted
federal authorities about securing the copied information. As a result of this contact, the Third
Party informed Respondent that the copied information had been secured, and was no longer in
the Third Party’s possession.

Between June 21, 2016, and April 17, 2017, when contacted by the Third Party,
Respondent was unaware that a significant amount of its customers’ records and information
were unprotected, that this data was subsequently compromised, and that the same deficiency
had led to several compromises of sensitive information at other organizations. Although
Respondent has represented that customers’ records and information were not compromised
beyond the Third Party, its IT Provider’s failure to implement fully the ISSP left unprotected
against cyber-exploitation a significant amount of customer information, over a multiple month
period.

IV.

A, Legal Discussion

Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2017), requires that every Commission registrant*
“diligently supervise the handling by its partners, officers, employees and agents” of all activities
relating to its business as a registrant. Regulation 166.3 imposes upon a registrant an affirmative
duty to supervise its employees and agents diligently by establishing, implementing and
executing an adequate supervisory structure and compliance program. See CFTC v. Carnegie
Trading Grp., Litd., 450 F. Supp. 2d 788, 805 (N.D. Ohio 2006); Adoption of Customer
Protection Rules, 43 Fed. Reg. 31,886, 31,889 (July 24, 1978). For a registrant to fulfill its
duties under Regulation 166.3, it must both design an adequate program of supervision and
ensure that the program is followed. See, e.g., /n re GNP Commodities, Inc., CFTC No. 89-1,
1992 WL 201158, at *17-19 (Aug. 11, 1992), aff'd sub nom. Monieson v. CFTC, 996 F.2d 852
(7th Cir. 1993).

A violation of Regulation 166.3 is an independent violation for which no underlying
violation is necessary. See GNP Commodities, 1992 WL 201158, at *17 n.11; In re Paragon
Futures Ass’n, CFTC No. 88-18, 1992 WL 74261, at *13 (Apr. 1, 1992). Consequently, a
violation of Regulation 166.3 “is demonstrated by showing either that: (1) the registrant’s
supervisory system was generally inadequate; or (2) the registrant failed to perform its
supervisory duties diligently.” In re FCStone, LLC, CFTC No. 15-21, 2015 WL 2066891, at *3
(May 1, 2015) (consent order) (citing Jn re Murlas Commodities, CFTC No. 85-29, 1995 WL
523563, at *9 (Sept. 1, 1995)); see also Paragon, 1992 WL 74261, at *14 (concluding that the
“focus of any proceeding to determine whether Rule 166.3 has been violated will be on whether
such review occurred and, if it did, whether it was ‘diligent’”). Whether a registrant has met its
supervisory duties is a fact-intensive determination. See, e.g., GNP Commodities, 1992 WL
201158, at *17.

 

* An exception to this obligation exists for associated persons who do not have supervisory duties.
Regulation 160.30, 17 C.F.R. § 160.30 (2017), requires FCMs to “adopt policies and
procedures that address administrative, technical and physical safeguards for the protection of
customer records and information.”” An FCM may delegate the performance of its ISSP’s
technical provisions, including those relevant here. But in contracting with an IT Provider as its
agent to perform these services, an FCM cannot abdicate its responsibilities under Regulation
166.3 and must diligently supervise the IT Provider’s handling of all activities relating to the
FCM’s business as a Commission registrant. The protection of customers’ records and
information must be of paramount concern for an FCM. As noted, Regulation 160.30 requires an
FCM to adopt policies and procedures to protect customer records and information. Flowing
naturally from this requirement is the FCM’s duty, under Regulation 166.3, to diligently
supervise how those policies and procedures are implemented, and how the customer records and
information are electronically protected. Here, Respondent’s failure to diligently supervise the
IT Provider’s implementation of critical ISSP provisions constitutes a violation of Regulation
166.3. This failure is evidenced by the fact that for nearly ten months, a significant amount of
Respondent’s customers’ records and information were unprotected and vulnerable to cyber-
exploitation—a vulnerability, and ultimately a breach, of which Respondent was unaware until
being notified by the Third Party.

B. Respondent’s Cooperation

Respondent has represented that, upon learning of the data compromise, Respondent’s
officers took action to secure its customers’ information and verify that the compromise was
limited to the Third Party while taking additional steps to protect its network going forward.
These additional steps included: (1) initiating a comprehensive review of its network security;
(2) additional encryption of customers’ records and information; and (3) hiring a cybersecurity
firm to perform a penetration test of its network to further ensure its security. Further,
Respondent provided significant cooperation to the Commission Division of Enforcement’s
investigation by expeditiously providing relevant records including a detailed event timeline,
internal communications, and technical documents, along with the results of the penetration test
of its network. These records, combined with voluntary interviews and testimony of
Respondent’s personnel, substantially aided the Division’s reconstruction of relevant events.

Accordingly, the civil monetary penalty imposed on Respondent reflects Respondent’s
cooperation.

 

> Under NFA Interpretive Notice 9070, “each [NFA] Member must adopt and enforce a written ISSP reasonably
designed to provide safeguards, appropriate to the Member’s size, complexity of operations, type of customers and
counterparties, the sensitivity of the data accessible within its systems, and its electronic interconnectivity with other
entities, to protect against security threats or hazards to their technology systems.” Similarly, Commission Staff
Advisory No. 14-21 states that “[eJach covered entity [including FCMs] should develop, implement and maintain a
written information security and privacy program that is appropriate to its size and complexity” and that
“{i]dentifLies], in writing, all reasonably foreseeable internal and external risks to security, confidentiality, and
integrity of personal information .. . and establish processes and controls to assess and mitigate risks, before
implementing new or material changes to internal systems.”
V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,

Respondent violated Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2017).

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the

findings and conclusions herein:

A.

B.

Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

Waives:
1, The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;
4, Judicial review by any court;

5. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,
5 USS.C. § 504 (2012), and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2017), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-53, 110 Stat. 847,
857-74 (codified as amended in scattered sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.),
relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief, including this Order;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;
Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1. Makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Regulation 166.3,
17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2017);

2. Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3;

3. Orders Respondent to pay one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), plus post-
judgment interest; and

4, Orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

Vil.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

B.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2017).

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) (‘CMP Obligation’), plus post-judgment interest, within ten (10) days of the date
of the entry of this Order. If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of the
date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill
rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is
to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made
payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Marie Thorne
or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall fully comply
with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a
cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter
and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

C. Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and
assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control, shall take any action or
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions
in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without
a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect
Respondent’s: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions in other
proceedings to which the Commission is not a party. Respondent and its successors
and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or
employees under its authority or control understand and comply with this agreement.

2. Cooperation in General: Respondent shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with
the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, in this
action, and in any current or future Commission investigation or action related
thereto. Respondent shall also cooperate in any investigation, civil litigation, or
administrative matter related to, or arising from, this action.

3. Required Reports: Six months and one year, respectively, from the date of the entry
of this Order, Respondent shall provide a written report to the Commission: (i)
detailing Respondent’s efforts to maintain and strengthen the security of its network;
and (ii) confirming Respondent’s compliance with its ISSP’s requirements.

4. Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of any partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a
waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

5. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full its
CMP Obligation as set forth in this Order, Respondent shall provide written
notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to its telephone number
and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christopher J. 4

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: February 12, 2018
