cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Student Loan Servicers
Discover Bank, The Student Loan Corporation, and Discover Products, Inc. for
Violating a Bureau Consent Order and Other Unlawful Practices

DEC 22, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against Discover Bank, The Student Loan Corporation, and Discover
Products, Inc. (collectively, Discover) based on the Bureau's findings that Discover violated a
prior Bureau order, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA), and the Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA). Discover Bank, headquartered in Greenwood, Delaware, is
an insured depository institution that provides and services private student loans. The
Student Loan Corporation and Discover Products, Inc., are affiliates of Discover Bank, and
also engage in student loan servicing. Under today’s order, Discover must pay at least $10
million in consumer redress and a $25 million civil money penalty.

The Bureau previously issued a consent order against Discover in July 2015 (2015 Order).
The Bureau's 2015 Order was based on the Bureau's finding that Discover misstated the
minimum amounts due on billing statements as well as tax information consumers needed
to get federal income tax benefits. The Bureau also found that Discover engaged in illegal
debt collection practices. The Bureau’s 2015 Order required Discover to refund $16 million
to consumers, pay a penalty, and fix its unlawful practices servicing and collection practices.
The Bureau found that Discover violated the 2015 Order's requirements in several ways.
Discover misrepresented the minimum loan payments consumers owed, the amount of
interest consumers paid, and other material information, such as interest rates, payments,
due dates, and the availability of rewards, among other things. Discover also did not
provide all of the consumer redress the 2015 Order required.

The Bureau found that Discover engaged in unfair acts and practices by withdrawing
payments from more than 17,000 consumers’ accounts without valid authorization and by
cancelling or not withdrawing payments for more than 14,000 consumers without notifying
them. This conduct violated the CFPA, EFTA, and Regulation E. The Bureau also found that
Discover engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of the CFPA by
misrepresenting to more than 100,000 consumers the minimum payment owed and to
more than 8,000 consumers the amount of interest paid. Some consumers ended up paying
more than they owed, others became late or delinquent because they could not pay the
overstated amount, while others may have filed inaccurate tax returns.

Today’s order prohibits Discover from making any misrepresentations about minimum
payments consumers owe, the amount of interest consumers paid, and other material
servicing terms. The order also prohibits Discover from withdrawing loan payments from
consumers’ bank accounts in amounts or at times not authorized by consumers.

The consent order can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_discover-bank-et-al_consent-

 

2020-12. pdf)
HH

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
