2020-BCFP-0016 Document’ Filed 09/21/2020 Page 1 of 26

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP- 0016

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER
LOBEL FINANCIAL
CORPORATION

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
subprime-auto-loan-servicing activities of Lobel Financial Corporation
(Respondent, as defined below) and has identified the following violations of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. $$ 5531(c),
5536(a): (1) engaging in unfair acts or practices by continuing to bill borrowers for
Loss Damage Waiver coverage but then failing to provide such coverage; and (2)
engaging in unfair acts or practices by assessing and collecting various fees that
borrowers were not contractually obligated to pay under the terms of the Loss
Damage Waiver contract. Under §$ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§

5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order.
Jurisdiction
The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565.
I.
Stipulation
Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated September 8, 2020 (Stipulation), which is
incorporated here by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this
Stipulation, Respondent has consented to the Bureau’s issuance of this
Consent Order under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 88 5563,
5565, without admitting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions
of law, except that Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the
Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.
HII.
Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Affected Consumers” include:
il.

iil.

the at least 2,919 consumers who, during the Relevant Period, paid
Respondent monthly Loss Damage Waiver premiums when they
were more than 10 days delinquent but who Respondent did not
provide with coverage;

the at least 451 consumers who, during the Relevant Period, paid
Respondent monthly Loss Damage Waiver premiums when they
were more than 10 days delinquent and who submitted claims for
either total vehicle loss or repair that Respondent denied; and

the at least 607 consumers from whom Respondent collected Loss
Damage Waiver claim-related fees that borrowers were not
contractually obligated to pay under their agreements with

Respondent during the Relevant Period.

“Board” means Respondent’s duly-elected and acting Board of

Directors.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is

issued.

“Loss Damage Waiver” or “LDW” means the product that Lobel

places on borrower accounts for a monthly premium when the

borrower has insufficient insurance, and which covers cancellation of
AANA DAES ANSE Pam
O20-BCFR-OOTG Doct

PAPA LIAO ™
’ ’ § io vis ~
oe We AP Je BAS

os wena
remarry oF Berta OC
APEHSE eh g PUREOOAY Way et PP OU?

Pe
sae

a
or
ae

Pe
whe

the borrower’s debt in the event of a total vehicle loss, or the cost of a
repair

e. “Regional Director” means the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection’s Regional Director for the Office of Supervision’s West
Region, or his or her delegate.

f. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent
Order.

g. “Relevant Period” means from and including January 1, 2011 through
and including July 31, 2019.

h. “Respondent” means Lobel Financial Corporation and its successors
and assigns.

IV.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

4. Lobel is a California corporation with its principal place of business in

Anaheim, California.
10.

Lobel indirectly originates and services subprime auto loans by taking
assignment of retail-installment-sales contracts that automobile dealers make
with borrowers.

These activities are “consumer financial products and services” under the
CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), IS(A)(G) & (x).

Lobel is therefore a “covered person” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6).
Since 2008, Lobel has used LDW. The LDW product is not an insurance
product, though Lobel uses it as a substitute for collateral-protection
insurance.

The LDW agreement specifies that if at any time the borrower fails to
maintain car insurance subject to certain specifications, Lobel will add LDW
coverage to the consumer’s account. When Lobel adds LDW coverage,
Lobel charges the consumer a monthly premium and, in the event of a repair,
Lobel will pay the cost of the repair. In the event of a “total vehicle loss,”
Lobel will cancel the borrower’s debt.

Lobel charges a $70 monthly premium, on average, for LDW coverage.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Findings and Conclusions as to
Charging Delinquent Consumers for LDW

The LDW agreement allows Lobel to cancel the agreement and suspend
coverage if the borrower becomes delinquent on his or her loan by 10 or
more days.

When consumers became 10 days delinquent on their loans, however, Lobel
did not stop charging the monthly premium or otherwise indicate that it was
canceling the LDW coverage. Instead, Lobel continued to charge these
consumers, even though it no longer provided them with LDW coverage.
And when many of these consumers, who had become more than 10 days
delinquent on their auto loans, experienced a “total vehicle loss” or needed a
repair, Lobel denied their claims and did not cancel their debts or cover their
repairs.

Since 2012, in the course of administering the LDW product, at least 2,919
consumers paid monthly LDW premiums when they were more than 10 days
delinquent, yet Lobel did not provide those consumers with LDW coverage.
In addition, since 2012, at least 451 consumers submitted LDW claims for
either “total vehicle loss” or repair that Lobel denied as though their

coverage had been canceled.
16.

17.

18.

19.

Lobel improperly denied at least 261 additional consumers’ LD W claims
and improperly furnished information to the consumer-reporting agencies
indicating that these consumers have outstanding debts totaling at least
$1,744,902.53, as a portion of the debts should not have been charged to the
consumers under the LDW agreement.

These acts and practices violated the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $$ 5531(c), 5536(a).

Findings and Conclusions as to
Charging Consumers Fees in Excess of $500

The LDW agreement states that when Lobel declares that a vehicle is a total
loss, the borrower must pay the following fees and charges: the first $500 in
damages per loss occurrence; all past-due payments; interest in arrears
through the date of loss; all past-due LDW fees; all late charges; all legal or
collection or repossession fees; impound fees; storage or towing costs
exceeding $150 related to the damage occurrence; and lost-salvage fees
resulting from a lien sale or other event where Lobel cannot recover the
salvage value of the damaged motor vehicle.

Yet, in numerous instances, Lobel assessed and collected two additional fees
not listed in the LDW agreement: (1) the vehicle’s salvage value (even if the
borrower did not wish to retain the vehicle for salvage) and (2) monthly loan

payments from the time the LDW claim was approved and Lobel declared
20.

21.

22.

23.

the vehicle a total loss until the debt was canceled (a process that took Lobel,
on average, 3 months to complete).
Since at least 2011, Lobel assessed and collected LDW claim-related fees
that borrowers were not contractually obligated to pay under their
agreements with Lobel.
In total, at least 607 consumers paid $352,895 in excessive fees during this
period.
These acts and practices violated the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $$ 5531(c), 5536(a).
V.
Prohibited Conduct
IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:
Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with the origination and servicing of auto loans, are
permanently restrained and enjoined from:
a. failing to provide consumers with LDW coverage, collateral protection
insurance, or similar products or services for which Respondent has
charged consumers; or

b. charging consumers fees that are not authorized by its LDW contracts.
24.

25.

26.

VI.
Role of the Board
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The Board must review all submissions (including plans, reports, programs,
policies, and procedures) required by this Consent Order before their
submission to the Bureau.
Although this Consent Order requires Respondent to submit certain
documents to the Regional Director for review or non-objection, the Board
will have the ultimate responsibility for Respondent’s proper and sound
management and for ensuring that Respondent complies with the laws that
the Bureau enforces, including Federal consumer financial laws and this
Consent Order.
Whenever this Consent Order requires the Board to perform or ensure
Respondent’s adherence to certain obligations, the Board must:
a. authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondent to fully
comply with the Consent Order;

b. require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of

compliance obligations; and
27.

28.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

~*~. os mt ENA I ~ an EAR
Roaciumert 7 Pilad GO/f/ed feoeo Paaa Tf of BF
BHAA Ed POPS Ae : er

an io 2
Vie Hee

C. require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any
material non-compliance with any failures to comply with Board
directives related to this Section.

VIL.
Order to Pay Redress

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must reserve or deposit

$1,345,224 into a segregated deposit account for the purpose of providing

redress to Affected Consumers as required by this Section.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive written

plan for providing redress consistent with this Consent Order (Redress Plan).

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to non-object to the

Redress Plan or to direct Respondent to revise it. If the Enforcement

Director directs Respondent to revise the Redress Plan, Respondent must

revise and resubmit the Redress Plan to the Enforcement Director within 15

days. After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has no

objection to the Redress Plan, Respondent must implement and adhere to the

10
29.

30.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

~ . 4 me EN Ey ~ Aa ae
Miners t fF Clan Malo d Pane Dawe tt at OF
BP ASLP PERG Gk og Pikes We. 5 2 oF F Ge oe

an io 2
Vie Hee

steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Redress

Plan.
The Redress Plan must:
a. provide the form, e.g., certified or bank check, in which the required

redress shall be provided to the Affected Consumers;

b. provide the method that will be used to deliver redress to the Affected
Consumers and to ensure the redress was received; and

C. provide the procedure that will be used to request that Consumer
Reporting Agencies (CRAs) to which Respondent furnished
inaccurate information about Affected Consumers, correct or update
the inaccurate information in accordance with 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-
2(a)(2). Where Respondent cannot furnish a correction or update,
Respondent will request that the CRAs to which it furnished the
information delete the tradeline.

After completing the Redress Plan, if the amount of redress provided to

Affected Consumers is less than $1,345,224, within 30 days of the

completion of the Redress Plan, Respondent must pay to the Bureau, by wire

transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent, and according to the

11
31.

32.

33.

APA PAPE PS A
SOOO Ber RAMS
Sa tet

Bureau’s wiring instructions, the difference between the amount of redress
provided to Affected Consumers and $1,345,224.
The Bureau may use these remaining funds to pay additional redress to
Aftected Consumers. If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that
additional redress is wholly or partially impracticable or otherwise
inappropriate, or if funds remain after the additional redress is completed,
the money will not revert to Respondent. Respondent will have no right to
challenge any actions that the Bureau or its representatives may take under
this Section.
Respondent may not condition the payment of any redress to any Affected
Consumer under this Consent Order on that Affected Consumer waiving any
right.
VI.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order and by
taking into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must

pay the Bureau a $100,000 civil money penalty.

12
34.

35.

36.

37.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
SSP eM

cH

HPN A I oa ae Nee
AQMP fanan Saran 42 af 3¢
Sia a Pra Pee ee ot g ei
ON te PE ON ee! 5 tat athe

\N

Tomer ised 4 Cia
Sse yee fk Sary : he Pi eag
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money

penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in

compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in

the Bureau’s Civil Penalty Fund, as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA, 12

U.S.C. § 5497(d).

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under

this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how

the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, for any civil money penalty paid
under this Consent Order.

To preserve the civil money penalty’s deterrent effect, Respondent may not

argue in any Related Consumer Action that Respondent is entitled to, nor

may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory

monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the

13
38.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

~ a oe NE ~ aa as
Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Malo d Pane Bane 14 at OF
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od yoPPRSAS Wee. 5 she rer Lb

ae io a
Vie Hee

civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

IX.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and

payable.

14
39.

40.

41.

42.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

re oo pry PPA EA Ee ry ay roe
Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan §OfOo4 oan Mane TH af OF
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od BPR eA AG, : ? war

an io 2
Vie Hee

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.
Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of
consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

X.

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not

limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would

15
43.

AAAN RAPS AMA
IOWANS
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

cH

Pe ea ayy of Pe PN PN A Pe PS Saat awa OE EO
Praciirnant 4 Clan OOf/odfenan Sarace 42 Af 34
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od BPR eA AG, : PY st

an io 2
Vie Hee

result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but no later than 14 days after the development.
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:
a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact that the Bureau may use to

communicate with Respondent;

b. identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or

that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

C. describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and

sales.

16
44,

45.

AAAN RAPS AMA
IOWANS
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

cH

rw cA pry PPP PRO ry ay roe
Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Malo d Pane Meee TF nt OF
BASLE EER PER Od yoPPRSAS Wee. : sXe or F wal aw

an io 2
Vie Hee

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 44 above at least 30 days before the change or as
soon as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective
Date, Respondent must submit to the Regional Director an accurate written
compliance progress report (Compliance Report) that has been approved by
the Board, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Redress Plan; and

C. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under

Section XI, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

17
46.

47.

48.

49.

AAAN RAPS AMA
IOWANS
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

cH

~ . 8 pens . me ex ar
Maer sone 4 Rae PAPO OAS = AO wh

Po es ys carat RTA Eas er Pb ei Nee CN NT
BA AEN Pa POPS! APG PP ola PoSAGNe Oo AS tt

XI.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well
as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.
For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section X, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt

of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures

18
50.

SI.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

rw. tA pry LPR PN A Pm PATE ry as 6 aAS
Pocument 7 Pilad GO/f/ed feoeo Rane TO of BF
BA AEN Pa POPS Ae : eR NP ME at

an io 2
Vie Hee

comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seq.,

within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent

Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau

with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was

delivered through that date under Paragraphs 48-49 and a copy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under

Paragraph 51.

XII.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must create and retain the following business records:

a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau.

b. all documents and records pertaining to the Redress Plan, described in
Section VII, above.

C. for each individual Affected Consumer and his or her enrollment in

the LDW coverage plan: the consumer’s name, address, phone

19
52.

53.

number, email address; amount paid, the date on which the LDW
coverage was purchased, dates when premiums were billed and paid,
and, if applicable, dates when any claims were made and how the
claims were resolved; and
d. all consumer complaints and refund requests regarding the LDW
coverage plan (whether received directly or indirectly, such as through
a third party), and any responses to those complaints or requests.
Within 14 days of Respondent’s receipt of a written request from the
Bureau, Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 51
available to the Bureau.
XII.
Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Lobel
Financial Corporation, File No. 2020-BCFP- 0016 ,” and send them by
overnight courier or first-class mail to the below addresses and

~

. ro ge . a a6 ot ¢ q
Bo fe re . Ae f swan le ena oye foe ghar, be mee S
8 PRP SRR HH ES : CPPS EP eR EE PES SEO OPA OS®
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement Compliance@?ct HO .LOV.

20
54.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

rw cA peng PPP PRO ry at roe
Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan §OfOo4 oan Rineven Bt at OE
LAGOS PL] Prue le, ; ¢ Sr

an io 2
Vie Hee

Regional Director, Bureau West Region

301 Howard Street, Suite 1200

San Francisco, CA 94105

and

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.

Washington D.C. 20552.

XIV.
Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity
and location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected
Consumer. Respondent must provide such information in its or its agents’

possession or control within 14 days of receiving a written request from the

Bureau.

21
55.

56.

57.

AAAN RAPS AMA
IOWANS
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE

cH

~ . A puss Soe re ex ae
Pe ea cee ene of Rha a PU Pe FOE
PAOCUINENE % rae OY STP eb eu}
BaP AS SPEER Pkg PoP Ae bs < :

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of Respondent’s receipt of a written request from the
Bureau, Respondent must submit additional Compliance Reports or other
requested non-privileged information related to requirements of this Consent
Order, which must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn
testimony related to requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s
compliance with those requirements; or produce non-privileged documents
related to requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance
with those requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview any employee
or other person affiliated with Respondent about the requirements of this
Consent Order and Respondents compliance with those requirements, who has
agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.

22
AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

Pe ea ayy od Pe PN PN A Pe PS oe ID AE TES
Py TE EY SAE ; eam PAs? 2A FOOSE DF aese M2 at OS
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od yb! Ae.

eR Pg ae “a a3 “ : 2
ete ee bwie her oe ” ENT oy
\ oie PRLS wo AST tt

58. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.

XVI.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

59. Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.

60. The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines that
good cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the
Regional Director must be in writing.

XVII.
Administrative Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
61. The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent

the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as

23
62.

63.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
SSP eM

cH

rw cA peng PPP PRO ry A roe
Mie issycinmt 4 Clan Malo d Pane Bann 34 At OF
BASLE EER PER Od yoPPRSAS Wee. : she ap Lb

Vie Hee

described in Paragraph 62. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knew about
them on the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract

binding the Bureau or the United States.

24
64.

65.

66.

67.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
AAO Brew Ass
Sa tet

cH

rN cA pry PPA EA Ee ry ae Lae
Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan §OfOo4 oan Rare OR af OF
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od yb! Ae. : ew et Ad th

Vie Hee

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except
to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated
agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under §1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not

contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

25
2020-BCFP-0016 Document1 Filed 09/21/2020 Page 26 of 26

68. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

69. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to
violate any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this {Wey of September, 2020

    

athleen L. Krani
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

26
