UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

RECEIVED CFTC

 

In the Matter of:

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.,
CFTC Docket No. 20 — 08 Proceedings Clerk

Respondent. 10:30 am, Nov 08, 2019

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I, INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to
believe that from August 2014 through May 2018 (the “Relevant Period”) Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (‘Wells Fargo” or “Respondent”’) violated Section 4s(h)(1)(B) and (3)(C) of
the Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act’), 7 U.S.C. § 6s(h)(1)(B), (3)(C) (2012), and
Commission Regulations (“Regulation”) 23.402(a)(1)() and (2) and 23.433, 17 C.F.R. §§
23.402(a)(1)(), (2), 23.433 (2019). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and
in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted
to determine whether Respondent has engaged in the violations as set forth herein and to
determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of this administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to
accept. Without admitting or denying any of the findings and conclusions herein,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), and acknowledges service of this Order. '

 

' Respondent consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party
or claimant, and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein,
without further proof. Respondent does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or
conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the
Commission is a party or claimant other than: a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a proceeding
to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any other proceeding,
I. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

During the Relevant Period, Respondent entered into a foreign exchange (“FX”)
forward contract with a counterparty to exchange USD $4 billion for CAD $4.347 billion.
The forward contract settled in December 2014 and coincided with the closing date of the
counterparty’s acquisition of a Canadian company. Respondent agreed with its
counterparty that the four-month forward transaction for $4 billion USD/CAD would be
priced at the weighted average spot rate, plus an adjustment, of the CAD Respondent
acquired in the spot market on August 27, 2014. Respondent and the counterparty agreed
to evenly split “the upside” from the trade if the average spot rate Respondent was able to
execute exceeded a certain level.

Respondent did not have a system in place to accurately track trades used to fill
the counterparty’s order. Rather than calculate the agreed upon weighted average price—
as represented by Respondent—Respondent instead picked a rate it believed would be in
the range of the true weighted average and thus acceptable to the counterparty.
Respondent also provided the counterparty with a spreadsheet that Respondent claimed
calculated the true weighted average. However, the spreadsheet did not reflect actual
trades on behalf of the counterparty because Respondent lacked the ability to track trades
related to the counterparty’s transaction.

Respondent also did not implement procedures designed to ensure that accurate
information was provided to the counterparty. As a result of this failure, as well as the
failure to track counterparty-related trades, Respondent provided misinformation to the
counterparty regarding the timing of the accumulation of the spot CAD, the prices of the
spot CAD trades that filled the order, when the order was ultimately filled, and whether
Respondent profited from options related to the counterparty’s order. Respondent’s
supervisory systems were inadequate to ensure implementation and monitoring of
compliance with policies and procedures regarding communication with counterparties in
a fair and balanced manner throughout the Relevant Period. Respondent failed to cure
these deficiencies until May 2018.

B. RESPONDENT

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. has its main office in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and
has been provisionally registered as a swap dealer (“SD”) since December 31, 2012.

C. FACTS

In 2014, Wells Fargo and one of its counterparties had discussions over the course
of several months about Wells Fargo financing the counterparty’s acquisition of a
Canadian company. The counterparty also inquired about a strategy for hedging its
exposure to exchange rate fluctuations prior to closing its acquisition of the Canadian
company.
Bankers at Wells Fargo referred the counterparty to the FX team. Respondent and
the counterparty ultimately entered into a four-month forward contract on August 27,
2014, with a settlement price that would be based on the weighted average rate of CAD
spot contracts that Respondent agreed to purchase on behalf of the counterparty on
August 27, 2014.

The parties also agreed to a pricing component that involved a “cap.” The cap
would be determined from the spot price of CAD at the time Respondent commenced
trading on August 27, plus a risk adjustment of fifty-five “pips.’” If the weighted average
rate was above the price cap, the parties would split “the upside” equally. On the other
hand, if the weighted average rate was below the cap, Respondent would assume the
downside risk on the transaction.

Respondent’s employees, including senior members of the FX management team,
were aware that the deal required Respondent to provide a weighted average rate based
on actual spot trades. However, as a result of not having an adequate trade tracking
system in place, Respondent failed to record which trades were placed for the
counterparty, and thus could not produce an accurate weighted average. Instead,
Respondent provided the counterparty with a weighted average rate of 1.0851, which
Respondent believed would be a good fill for the counterparty and which was within the
general range of the true weighted average. A later reconstruction of the trading by
Respondent revealed that the actual weighted average rate for the spot trades was closer
to 1.08532, or 2.2 pips higher than the provided rate.

The counterparty agreed to enter into the forward contract with Respondent at
around 1:16 pm (EDT) on August 27. A short time later, Respondent informed the
counterparty that spot trading had begun at 1:20 pm (EDT). However, Respondent had
actually started spot trading CAD approximately two hours earlier, even before the
counterparty had agreed to enter into the forward contract with Respondent. That trading
was at a more favorable starting price than quoted to the counterparty and was used to fill —
the counterparty’s order. Again, because Respondent’s trade tracking system was
inadequate, none of this information was communicated to the counterparty.

Respondent also failed to accurately communicate to the counterparty regarding
when it had finished accumulating spot CAD. The last such communication occurred at
approximately 3:00 pm (EDT) on August 27, 2014, when Respondent sent an e-mail to
the counterparty informing it that trading was done and that Respondent would have final
numbers for the counterparty shortly. However, because Respondent did not have a trade
tracking system in place, Respondent did not know that it had not yet acquired $4 billion
USD/CAD to complete the transaction with the counterparty.

 

* A pip, short for “point in percentage,” is a small measure of change in the price of a currency pair in the
forex market. It can be measured in terms of the quote or in terms of the underlying currency. A pip is a
standardized unit and is the smallest amount by which a currency quote can change. It is usually $0.0001
for U.S.-dollar related currency pairs, which is more commonly referred to as 1/100th of 1%, or one basis
point.

oo
Furthermore, during a September 3, 2014, telephone call, despite inquiries from
the counterparty concerning Respondent’s pre-trade option activity, a sales specialist for
Respondent only mentioned a “small protective hedge” of two-day options, while failing
to communicate to the counterparty that Respondent had executed one additional CAD
option in excess of its hedge. The sales specialist also failed to disclose to the
counterparty that Respondent earned a profit on the options activity.

Respondent failed to communicate in good faith with the counterparty by failing
to provide accurate information regarding when the spot CAD was accumulated,
including when and at what price the trading commenced, when it finished trading, and
information regarding trading engaged in prior to, and contemporaneously with, the
forward contract transaction. Respondent failed to have policies and procedures in place
to ensure that the accumulation of the spot CAD on behalf of the counterparty was both
automatically tracked and accurately calculated. Compounding those failures,
Respondent lacked policies and procedures sufficient to ensure that those failures were
identified and corrected. Respondent’s risk management and supervisory structure
lacked independence from Respondent’s trading function. Only when informed by the
counterparty of irregularities did Respondent seek to investigate and remedy its _
violations. Respondent failed to remedy its supervision failures until May 2018.

Upon discovery, Respondent conducted an internal investigation and provided
specific and detailed information to the Division of Enforcement (“Division”) regarding
the supervision and communications deficiencies its internal investigation revealed,
which materially assisted the Division’s investigation. Respondent ultimately terminated
the employees responsible for the failures associated with the transaction and eventually
implemented a substantial plan to remediate these deficiencies and improve the
supervision and communications processes for its SD.

UI. LEGAL DISCUSSION

Pursuant to Section 1a(47)(E)(iv) of the Act, “any party to a foreign exchange
swap or forward that is a swap dealer. . .shall conform to the business conduct standards
contained in section 4s(h).” 7 U.S.C. § 1a(47)(E)(iv) (2012). Section 4s(h)(1)(B) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6s(h)(1)(B) (2012), provides that registered swap dealers shall conform
with business conduct rules or regulations prescribed by the Commission that, inter alia,
relate to diligent supervision of the business of the registered swap dealers. In addition,
Section 4s(h)(3)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6s(h)(3)(C) (2012), provides that “[b]usiness
conduct requirements adopted by the Commission shall . . . establish a duty for a swap
dealer or major swap participant to communicate in a fair and balanced manner based on
principles of fair dealing and good faith.” Accordingly, Regulation 23.402(a)(1)() and
(2) requires swap dealers to have written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
ensure compliance with business conduct standards. 17 C.F.R. § 23.402(a)(1)(), (2)
(2019). Further, Regulation 23.433 requires SDs to communicate with their
counterparties in a fair and balanced manner based on principles of fair dealing and good
faith. 17 C.F.R. § 23.433 (2019).

During the Relevant Period, Respondent failed to maintain supervisory systems

4
adequate to ensure implementation and monitoring of compliance with policies and
procedures regarding business conduct standards. Respondent failed to communicate
with its counterparty in a fair and balanced manner, by (1) failing to calculate the agreed-
upon weighted average price, and instead picking a rate that it thought the counterparty
would accept; (2) providing a spreadsheet calculating the price for the spot trades that did
not accurately reflect the trades entered into on behalf of the counterparty because
Respondent was unable to track the actual trades on behalf of the counterparty; and (3)
providing inaccurate information about when Respondent started and stopped making
spot trades and the price of the initial trade used to fill the order.

As such, Respondent’s conduct described above violated its duty of fair dealing
and good faith in violation of Section 4s(h)(1)(B) and (3)(C) of the Act, and Regulations
23.402(a)(1)@) and (2) and 23.433.

IV. FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,
Respondent violated Section 4s(h)(1)(B), (3)(C) of the Act and Regulations
23.402(a)(1)(i) and (2), and 23.433.

V. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT
Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it:
A. Acknowledges service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set
forth in this Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized
by the Commission based on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:

1. the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. a hearing;

3, all post-hearing procedures;

4, judicial review by any court;

5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the
Commission’s staff in the Commission’s consideration of the
Offer;

6. any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to

Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012),
and/or the rules promulgated by the Commission in conformity
therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2019), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-
121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28
U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.),
relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this
proceeding or the entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a
civil monetary penalty or any other relief, including this Order;

D. Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist
solely of the findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has
consented in the Offer;

E. Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of
this Order that:

1.

makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated
Section 4s(h)(1)(B) and (3)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6s(h)(1)(B),
(3)(C) (2012), and Regulations 23.402(a)(1)(i) and (2), and 23.433
(2019);

orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Section
4s(h)(1)(B) and (3)(C) of the Act and Regulations 23.402(a)(1)()
and (2) and 23.433;

orders Respondent to pay $4.47 million ($4,470,000) in restitution,
which is deemed satisfied by payments in the amount of $4.47
million ($4,470,000) already made to the counterparty;

orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
ten million dollars ($10,000,000) within fifteen business days of
the date of entry of this Order, plus post-judgment interest; and

orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with
the conditions and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as
set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.
VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Section 4s(h)(1)(B) and (3)(C)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6s(h)(1)(B), (3)(C) (2012), and Regulations 23.402(a)(1)(i)
and (2), and 23.433, 17 C.F.R. §§ 23.402(a)(1)@), (2), 23.433 (2019).

Respondent shall pay restitution in the amount of $4.47 million ($4,470,000.00)
(“Restitution Obligation’). The ordered Restitution Obligation is deemed
satisfied by payments in the amount of $4.47 million ($4,470,000) already made
to the counterparty.

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of ten million dollars
($10,000,000) within fifteen business days of the date of the entry of this Order
(the “CMP Obligation”). If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within fifteen
business days of the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shal!
accrue on the CMP beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be
determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this
Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S.
postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order.
If payment is to be made by other than electronic funds transfer, the payment shall
be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the
address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 (office)

(405 954-1620 (fax)
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Marie
Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and
shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment
of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that identifies Respondent and the name
and docket number of this proceeding. Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st
Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.
D. Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following
conditions and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondent and neither it nor any of its successors and
assigns, agents, or employees under its authority or control shall take any
action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
findings or conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the
impression that this Order is without a factual basis; provided however,
that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondent’s: (i) testimonial
obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions in other proceedings to
which the Commission is not a party. Respondent and its successors and
assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents
and/or employees under its authority or control understand and comply
with this agreement.

2. Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any
acceptance by the Commission of partial payment of Respondent’s CMP
Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further
payments pursuant to this Order, and shall not be deemed a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

3. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full
its CMP Obligation as set forth in this Order, Respondent shall provide
written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to its
telephone number and mailing address within ten calendar days of the
change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective on this date.

By the Commission

 
   

Christoph J. Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: November 8, 2019
