Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 1 of 32 PagelD #:1

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

 

EASTERN DIVISION
COMMODITY FUTURES
TRADING COMMISSION,
Plaintiff, Hon.
Vv. Case No. 1:17-cv-06416

MONEX DEPOSIT COMPANY, MONEX
CREDIT COMPANY, NEWPORT JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
SERVICES CORPORATION, LOUIS

CARABINI, and MICHAEL CARABINI,

Defendants.

 

 

COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE AND EQUITABLE
RELIEF AND PENALTIES UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT

Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC” or “Commission’’), an

independent agency of the United States Government, by its attorneys, alleges as follows:

SUMMARY

1. From July 16, 2011 through the present (the “relevant period’), Monex Deposit
Company and its affiliates Monex Credit Company and Newport Service Corporation (referred to
collectively as “Monex”’), acting individually and collectively, through various officers, employees
and agents, have defrauded thousands of retail customers throughout the United States out of
hundreds of millions of dollars while executing tens of thousands of illegal, off-exchange retail
commodity transactions.

2. Monex offers off-exchange, leveraged precious metals trading to retail investors
through its “Atlas” program. Monex deceptively pitches its Atlas program as a safe, secure and

profitable way for retail customers to invest in precious metals. It is not. To the contrary,
PLO A SR! cen g wud uate %
2 gua g Ff ibe AE g PRS SP PR ophbe yo
iow Pee SURE PTH OG aE bE CE SE + ‘
Prk werk 2 LARGE

ae)
ors
Lo
e
oe,
ste
a
pales
a
”
re
4
te
bet
im
ot
ao

approximately 12,000 leveraged Atlas accounts collectively realized more than $290 million in
losses between July 16, 2011 and March 31, 2017—an average of more than $4 million a month.
Approximately 90% of leveraged Atlas accounts lost money during this period. Despite touting
the benefits of the Atlas program, Monex never discloses to prospective customers the massive
and pervasive losses suffered by its customers.

3. In an effort to induce customers to trade in its Atlas program, Monex
systematically over-represents the likelihood of profit for leveraged Atlas trading,
underrepresents the risk of loss, and falsely portrays the relationship between Monex and its
Atlas customers as one of “‘trust.’”” Among other false or material misleading claims, Monex
describes the Atlas program as a way to shield wealth from inflation, but fails to disclose the
significant number of customers who have had trading positions force-liquidated at a loss;
Monex sales representatives portray themselves as fiduciaries who look out for the best interests
of their customers, when, in fact, they are not fiduciaries and do not always act in the customers’
best interests; and Monex claims that because metals “will always have value . . . [a customer]
can’t lose [his or her] investment,” when, in fact, the customers can—and often do—suffer
substantial losses.

4. Although it touts the benefits and safety of its Atlas program, Monex has
structured the Atlas program in such a way that customer losses are all but inevitable, and Monex
stands to gain as a result of these losses. These Monex gains flowed in part from the Atlas
program’s structure, which included outsized price spreads, commissions, interest on loans, and
administrative fees. To take just one example, Monex price spreads for a single trade can be 100

times larger than price spreads for a similar trade on a regulated exchange. Monex serves as the
PLO A SR! cen g wud uate %
2 gua g Ff ibe AE g PRS SP PR ophbe yo
iow Pee SURE PTH OG aE bE CE SE + ‘
Prk werk 2 LARGE

tgp
_
re

c ib

CD
rarely
a
bt

rs

et

i

é
er
r
pales

on

counterparty for each Atlas transaction, thus benefitting directly from these large price spreads,
at the customers’ expense.

5. Monex and its sales representatives engage in high-pressure sales tactics designed
to push customers into leveraged precious metals trading in the Atlas program. As part of their
pitch, they misrepresent the likelihood of profit, systematically downplay the risks of leveraged
Atlas trading, and falsely promise that Monex will serve as customers’ fiduciaries. These sales
representatives are paid with commissions and bonuses tied directly to the number of Atlas
accounts they open and the volume of transactions in these accounts, rather than customer
account performance or rate of return, making clear that Monex prioritizes account opening and
trading volume, not account performance.

6. In addition to operating its Atlas program as a fraud on its customers, Monex also
operates the program in violation of governing laws designed to regulate leveraged retail
commodity trading. Leveraged trading on platforms like Monex’s bears key similarities to
trading on regulated futures exchanges. Prior to 2010, however, some such platforms eluded
regulation by utilizing contract terms that purported to distinguish their trading from that
conducted on futures exchanges—in form, but not in substance. In recognition of the risks that
unregulated trading platforms like the Atlas program pose to consumers, the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-203, H.R. 4173, commonly
referred to as “the Dodd-Frank Act,” made it illegal to offer or enter into leveraged commodity
transactions with retail customers, unless the transactions are conducted on a regulated
derivatives exchange, among other requirements. Although Monex, through its Atlas program,
offers and enters into leveraged commodity transactions with retail customers, it does not

conduct those transactions on a regulated exchange. In addition, the Act requires entities to
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 4 of 32 PagelD #:4

register with the Commission in order to solicit and accept orders for retail commodity
transactions, like those in the Atlas program, and to accept funds in connection with those
transactions. Although Monex, through its Atlas program, solicits and accepts orders for retail
commodity transactions, and accepts funds, or extends credit, in connection with those
transactions, Monex did not register as required.

7. By virtue of this conduct and the conduct further described herein, Monex has
engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in conduct in violation of Sections 4(a), 4b(a)(2)(A)
and (C), 4d, and 6(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”), 7 U.S.C. §§ 6(a),
6b(a)(2)(A), (C), 6d, 9(1) (2012), and Section 180.1(a) of the regulations promulgated under the
CEA (“Regulations”), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2017).

8. Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini are liable for Monex’s violations of the
CEA and the Regulations as “control persons” of Monex because they individually and
collectively held and exercised direct or indirect control over Monex and either failed to act in
good faith or knowingly induced the acts constituting Monex’s violations.

9. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, Defendants are likely to continue
engaging in the acts and practices alleged in this complaint, or in similar acts and practices.

10. The CFTC accordingly brings this action pursuant to Section 6c of the CEA,

7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), to enjoin Defendants’ unlawful practices and to compel their
compliance with the CEA and Regulations. In addition, the CFTC seeks restitution, rescission,
disgorgement, civil monetary penalties, and such other equitable relief as this Court may deem
appropriate.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

11. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under 28 U.S.C. § 1331 (federal

question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. § 1345, which provides that district courts have original
4
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 5 of 32 PagelD #:5

jurisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by any agency expressly
authorized to sue by Act of Congress. Section 6c(a) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(a) (2012),
authorizes the Commission to seek injunctive relief against any person whenever it shall appear
to the Commission that such person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or
practice constituting a violation of the CEA or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder.

12. Venue properly lies with the Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C.
§ 13a-1(e) (2012), because Defendants transact business in this District and certain transactions,
acts, practices, and business alleged in this Complaint occurred, are occurring, and/or are about
to occur within this District.

THE PARTIES

13. The CFTC is an independent federal regulatory agency that administers and
enforces the CEA, 7 U.S. C. §§ 1-26 (2012), and the Regulations promulgated thereunder, 17
C.F.R. pt. 1-190 (2017).

14. Monex Deposit Company and Monex Credit Company are California limited
partnerships organized in 1987. Newport Service Corporation is a California corporation formed
in 1987. All three entities are located in the same building at 4910 Birch Street, Newport Beach,
California. These three Monex entities are commonly owned and/or controlled by Michael
Carabini and his father Louis Carabini through various corporate entities and trusts. Michael
Carabini resides in San Juan Capistrano, California. Louis Carabini resides in Laguna Beach,
California. None of the defendants has been registered with the Commission in any capacity
since 1991.

15. According to Monex’s internal documents, “Monex Deposit Company” buys and
sells precious metals with customers through a telephonic sales force who solicit retail customers

to enter into Atlas transactions and also accepts funds in connection with its solicitation and

5
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 6 of 32 PagelD #:6

acceptance of orders for Atlas transactions. Monex Deposit Company acts as a counterparty to
Atlas transactions. According to Monex, “Monex Credit Company” provides loans to customers
in these transactions and also leases precious metals to customers. Monex Credit Company
issues monthly account statements to customers and also accepts funds in connection with its
extension of credit to secure Atlas transactions. Monex Credit Company also acts as the
counterparty to some Atlas transactions. According to Monex, “Newport Service Corporation”
performs administrative and accounting services for these and other Monex affiliates. Newport
Service Corporation also solicits and accepts orders for Atlas transactions, advertises the Atlas
program on television, and offers Atlas trading through other marketing devices. Newport
Service Corporation also accepts funds in connection with its solicitation and acceptance of
orders for Atlas transactions. From either the customer’s perspective or an operational
perspective, these entities operate seamlessly as a common enterprise.

16. During the relevant period, Michael Carabini was the primary operational
overseer of Monex. Louis Carabini is the founder of Monex. Despite passing on many
operational responsibilities to his son Michael, Louis Carabini remained substantially involved in
all of Monex’s operations during the relevant period. Both Michael and Louis Carabini are
signatories on Monex’s bank accounts, execute contracts on behalf of Monex and its affiliates,
and have the authority to hire and fire Monex employees. Michael Carabini is primarily
responsible for Monex’s advertisements and marketing, including the content of the Monex
website located at www.monex.com.

STATUTORY BACKGROUND

17. Effective July 16, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act broadened the scope of the Act to

include financed commodity transactions with retail customers (“retail commodity

transactions”). Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the CEA (7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D) (2012)) applies to “any
6
PLO A SR! cen g wud uate %
2 gua g Ff ibe AE g PRS SP PR ophbe yo
iow Pee SURE PTH OG aE bE CE SE + ‘
Prk werk 2 LARGE

tgp
_
re
c ib
CD
rarely
a
bt
rs
et
i

é
er
r
pales

on

agreement, contract, or transaction in any commodity” that is entered into with, or offered to, a
non-eligible contract participant “on a leveraged or margined basis, or financed by the offeror,
the counterparty, or a person acting in concert with the offeror or counterparty on a similar
basis.” These retail commodity transactions are subject to Sections 4(a) and 4b of the CEA

(7 U.S.C. 8§ 6(a), and 6b (2012)) “as if” they are a contract of sale of a commodity for future
delivery, commonly known as a “futures contract.” As a result, these transactions must be
executed on an exchange as required by Section 4(a), and are subject to the anti-fraud provisions
in Section 4b.

18. The CEA defines an Eligible Contract Participant (“ECP’’), in relevant part, as an
individual who has amounts invested on a discretionary basis, the aggregate of which is in excess
of $10 million, or $5 million if the individual enters into the transaction “in order to manage the
risk associated with an asset owned or liability incurred, or reasonably likely to be owned or
incurred, by the individual.” Section 1a(18)(x1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(18)(x1) (2012).

19. Section 4(a) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a) (2012), in relevant part, makes it
unlawful for any person to offer to enter into, enter into, execute, confirm the execution of, or
conduct any office or business anywhere in the United States for the purpose of soliciting,
accepting any order for, or otherwise dealing in any transaction in, or in connection with, a
contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery unless the transaction is
conducted on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that has been designated or registered by
the Commission as a contract market.

20. Section 4b(a)(2) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(2) (2012), in relevant part, makes it
unlawful:

for any person, in or in connection with any order to make, or the making of, any contract
of sale of any commodity for future delivery . . . that is made, or to be made, for on
PLO A SR! cen g wud uate %
2 gua g Ff ibe AE g PRS SP PR ophbe yo
iow Pee SURE PTH OG aE bE CE SE + ‘
Prk werk 2 LARGE

tgp
_
re
c ib
)
casing
a
bt
rs
et
i
x

é
er
r
pales

on

behalf of, or with, any other person, other than on or subject to the rules of a designated
contract market— (A) to cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud the other person;
(B) willfully to make or cause to be made to the other person any false report or
statement or willfully to enter or cause to be entered for the other person any false record;
[or] (C) willfully to deceive or attempt to deceive the other person by any means
whatsoever in regard to any order or contract or the disposition or execution of any order
or contract, or in regard to any act of agency performed, with respect to any order or
contact for or .. . with the other person.

21. Effective August 15, 2011, Section 753 of the Dodd-Frank Act amended Section
6(c) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 9 (2012), and broadened the CFTC’s anti-fraud authority. Section
6(c)(1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1), in relevant part, makes it unlawful for any person, directly
or indirectly, to use or employ, or attempt to use or employ, in connection with any swap, or a
contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce (without regard to whether it is
leveraged, margined, or financed), or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any
registered entity, any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance, in contravention of
Regulation 180.1, 17 C.F.R. § 180.1 (2017).

22. Effective August 15, 2011, Regulation 180.1, in relevant part, makes it unlawful
for any person, directly or indirectly, in connection with any contract of sale of any commodity
in interstate commerce to intentionally or recklessly: (1) use or employ, or attempt to use or
employ, any manipulative device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; (2) make, or attempt to make,
any untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary
in order to make the statements made not untrue or misleading; or (3) engage, or attempt to
engage, in any act, practice, or course of business, which operates or would operate as a fraud or
deceit upon any person.

23. Section 4d(1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(1) (2012), provides that “[it] shall be
unlawful for any person to be a futures commission merchant unless — such person shall have

registered .. . with the Commission as such futures commission merchant.” Section 1a(28)(A)
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 9 of 32 PagelD #:9

of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(28)(A)(2012), defines a “futures commission merchant” to include
any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust that, among other things, is engaged
in soliciting or accepting orders for any agreement, contract, or transaction described in Section
2(c)(2)(D)@) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D)() (2012), or acts as a counterparty to such
transaction, and in or in connection with that activity accepts any money, securities, or property
(or extends credit in lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades or contracts that

result or may result therefrom.
THE ILLEGAL TRANSACTIONS AND FRAUDULENT SCHEME
I. Monex’s Off-Exchange ‘“‘Atlas’”” Commodities Trading Platform

24. Monex, through various officers, employees and agents, acting as a common
enterprise, offers retail customers two types of transactions: (1) the purchase or sale of physical
metals such as coins or bars after full payment for actual delivery; and, (2) off exchange trading
of silver, gold, platinum and palladium on a leveraged, margined or financed basis in which a
retail customer purportedly purchases physical metal and pays only a portion of the purchase
price in the Atlas program.

25. Through its “Atlas” trading account, Monex offers retail customers the ability to
open trading positions in gold, silver, platinum and palladium. Trading does not take place on a
regulated exchange or board of trade. Instead, Monex operates its own unregulated trading
platform, allowing customers to place futures-like trades to speculate on price movements in
precious metals, with Monex acting as the counterparty to every transaction.

26. From July 16, 2011 to March 31, 2017 (the review period) Monex executed
approximately 140,000 trades for more than 12,000 customer accounts engaging in leveraged

precious metals trading through Monex’s Atlas program.
27. Monex does not limit participation in the Atlas program to individuals who have

more than a certain amount invested on a discretionary basis, and indeed the vast majority of
Atlas customers are not ECPs.

28. Monex permits customers to trade “on leverage” or “on margin,” meaning that
Monex will finance a portion of its customers’ trading positions. Monex requires that Atlas
customers deposit funds to serve as margin for open trading positions in their Atlas accounts.
During the relevant period Monex’s initial margin requirement was generally 22-25% of the
value of a trading account’s open positions. With an initial margin requirement of 25%, for
example, a trader could deposit $25,000 in an Atlas account and open a position valued at
$100,000.

29. As in futures trading, Atlas account traders can place “long” or “short” trades.
Traders opening “long” positions speculate that the price of a metal will go up; traders opening
“short” positions speculate that the price of a metal will go down. As is common in futures
trading, Monex gives Atlas account traders the option to place “stop” or “limit” orders to manage
their trading positions. Many customer accounts engage in short-term trading. For example,
during the review period approximately 25% of trading positions opened by leveraged Atlas
customer accounts were opened and closed within two weeks.

30. Monex, through its website and salespersons, solicits and accepts trading orders
from customers by telephone. Monex executes Atlas transactions by recording the trades in its
database. Monex confirms the execution of Atlas transactions by sending customers trade
confirmations.

31. Monex monitors the “equity” in each Atlas account — the value of a customer’s

metal less their “loan balance” at Monex. An Atlas account’s equity fluctuates along with the

10
~ ao OP AIRS a y

Neamt ats oF titan: Mme las
Mociuiment # 1 Eien: GQO/Ogf ? Par
La MwA PP ERS EE TR ok POOPERG AA. Sead Ae Aa &

rr

o

be

J?
fs

ste

r

“en

a

3 y

heh

ot

movement in metals prices associated with the account’s open trading positions, less accrued
interest and service fees. If equity in a customer’s trading account declines to Monex’s “call”
level, Monex can issue a margin call and require its customer to immediately deposit additional
funds to raise the equity level above Monex’s initial margin requirement. Monex can change its
margin requirements at any time in its sole discretion.

32. Trading positions are subject to what Monex calls “forced liquidation,” meaning
that the trading positions can be liquidated without notice to the customer. If an Atlas
customer’s account equity drops to 7%, trading positions are automatically force liquidated.
Monex also can liquidate a customer’s trading position at any time in its sole discretion without
further notice to the customer.

33. During the review period, out of 12,000 leveraged Atlas accounts, more than
3,000 were subject to a margin call, and at least 1,850 had trading positions force-liquidated.
Consequently, during that five-year and eight-month time period, approximately 30% of
Monex’s leveraged Atlas customer accounts either received a margin call, were subject to forced
liquidation of trading positions, or both.

34. Monex controls all aspects of its trading platform, including the price for every
trade. Generally, Monex sets prices by tracking the spot prices of precious metals traded on
CME Group’s COMEX and NYMEX contract markets, but Monex imposes a substantial spread
between its bid (to buy) and ask or offer (to sell) prices in comparison to prices on these
regulated exchanges.

35. During the relevant period, Monex generally imposed a 3% spread between its bid
and ask prices for Atlas program trades (the difference between the bid price and the ask price),

which Monex applies to the nominal value of the metal being purchased or sold. This spread

11
~ pe comes ’ aoe re mre

FN PAE DIN eta oF atesaic FRE ay 2° ;
Pyare POA, omy Po okopteeene § yO hoa fd hie ¢
: Pieyyesryy ae Fob PRE Ye OP PMSA | 2 f 5
io MAAD EAGER TR. ak PERG AA. Aaa Ae g

rr

o

be

J?
fs

ste

r

“en

a

3 y

heh

ot

charge is substantial in comparison to futures trades of equivalent size on the regulated COMEX
and NYMEX contract markets. For example, the spread between bid and ask prices for one
COMExX< silver futures contract (5,000 ounces) with one tick between the bid and ask is $0.005
per troy ounce, equivalent to $25 per 5,000 ounces of silver. Buying and selling an equivalent
amount of silver (5,000 ounces) on Monex’s Atlas platform with a spot price of $17 per ounce
(the approximate price of silver during the month of June 2017) would incur a spread charge of
approximately $2,550, or more than 100 times the spread cost of equivalent COMEX
transactions.

36. The bulk of Monex’s revenues come from the price spread it charges on each
trade. According to Monex’s internal data, Monex charged approximately $95 million in price
spread during the review period. Monex also makes money by charging commissions, service
fees and interest on its loans to customers. According to Monex’s internal data, Monex also
collected approximately $14 million in commissions, $6.4 million in service fees, and more than
$57 million in interest charges, for total revenue of more than $170 million during the review
period.

37. Customers are not required to make monthly interest or service fee payments on
the loans that they take out to finance trading positions. Instead, these charges typically are
deducted from customers’ account equity each month. The effect of Monex’s interest and
service fee charges is that the equity in a customer account is constantly eroded by additions to
the customer’s loan balance.

38. Monex requires its Atlas customers to sign and return an Atlas account
agreement. The terms of the Atlas account agreement give control over the metals traded on the

Atlas trading platform to Monex, not the Atlas customers.

12
39, Atlas customers with open trading positions do not take physical delivery of the

precious metals that underlie their trading positions. Rather, the metals are stored in depositories
subject to contracts between Monex and the depositories which provide Monex with exclusive
authority to instruct the depositories as to the disposition of metals. Monex customers do not
enter into contracts with Monex’s depositories relating to any metals traded on Monex’s Atlas
platform, and do not have any contractual rights conferred upon them by the contracts between
Monex and the depositories.

AO. Monex’s Atlas customers do not possess or control any metals. The only way for
an Atlas customer to get possession of metal from Monex is to make full payment for the metals,
request actual delivery of specific physical metals, and have Monex ship the metals to them, to a
pick-up location, or to the customer’s agent.

41. When an Atlas customer opens a long position, Monex claims to transfer to the
customer ownership of all of the metals underlying his position, including the financed portion of
the position. This “transfer,” however, is in reality just a book-entry in Monex’s records. Monex
can close out the customer’s long position at any time in its sole discretion and at a price of
Monex’s choosing. There is also no requirement that Monex provide notice to a customer before
liquidating a customer’s position.

42. In the context of a short position, Monex claims to loan the customer metals that
the customer immediately sells back to Monex. As with a long position, the purported transfer of
metals is in reality a book-entry in Monex’s records that Monex can close out at any time in its
sole discretion and at a price of Monex’s choosing.

43. During the review period, approximately 90% of leveraged Atlas account

customers realized losses (including losses from trading, interest charges, and other fees). Total

13
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 14 of 32 PagelD #:14

net realized losses (including interest charges and fees) for all leveraged Atlas customer accounts
during the relevant period were at least $290 million. Including unrealized profit or loss on open
trading positions increases the loss amount to more than $325 million for the review period. A
substantial portion of these losses were caused by fees and charges imposed by Monex.

44. Defendants were actually aware of, or recklessly disregarded, the massive losses
suffered by its leveraged Atlas customers. Monex does not disclose its customers’ performance
to its customers or prospects.

II. Monex’s Fraudulent Scheme

45. Monex fraudulently induces customers into trading precious metals through its
Atlas program by falsely pitching the account as a powerful and profitable way to invest, despite
knowing that the vast majority of its leveraged Atlas program customers lose money.

46. Taken as a whole, the overall message conveyed by Monex is that the Atlas
program is a good, safe, secure and profitable way to invest in precious metals. In fact, the Atlas
program is designed to enrich Monex and its owners at the expense of thousands of unwitting
customers across the country. Monex and its sales representatives omit or fail to disclose this
and other material information that would make its Atlas program solicitations not misleading.

47. Monex lures customers into trading in the Atlas program by first touting the
benefits of investing in precious metals as an asset class. Monex emphasizes the benefits and
importance of having physical precious metals in a portfolio of investments as a hedge against
inflation, or that physical metals are intrinsically valuable, “unlike stocks and bonds.”

48. Monex also highlights the profitability of precious metals investments, including
in a “Profit Opportunity” section of its website. Monex claims elsewhere on its website that

“precious metals can offer outstanding price appreciation and profit potential,” and makes other

14
~ pe cog : oe Se oa x
FN PAE DIN eta oF atesaic FRE ay 2° ;

Pyare POA, omy § hope Ry hoa fd hie ¢

: Pieyyesryy ae Fob PRE Ye OP PMSA | 2 f Arve

hy MwA PP ERS EE TR ok POOPERG AA. Sead Ae Aa &

rr

o

pe

J?
fs

ste

r

me

a

3 y

heh

ot

similar claims such as: “What’s more, in recent years, precious metals have also proven to be
outstanding short-term trading vehicles, offering traders periods of outstanding profit potential as
metals prices fluctuate, sometimes dramatically, on world markets.”

49. After offering customers statements about the security, intrinsic value and
profitability of physical precious metals investments, Monex tells customers that the leveraged
Atlas program is one way to achieve the security and profitability associated with physical
precious metals investing.

50. For example, Monex claims in its brochure for the Atlas Account which is
distributed to prospects and Atlas customers, that:

a. The Atlas program is a “unique and powerful way to acquire precious metals with
the strength of investment leverage combined with the safekeeping security of
independent depository storage.”

b. By investing in precious metals through the Atlas program you can “protect
yourself from further declines in the value of the U.S. dollar.”

c. The Atlas program is a way to “shield your wealth against the ravaging effects of
inflation, deflation and other economic calamities.”

d. “[R]ight now may be an ideal time to invest in precious metals with the power
and built-in security of the Atlas Account.”

51. Similarly, Monex’s website describes the Atlas Account as “‘a way to purchase
precious metals using up to 4-to-1 investment leverage” and as a “powerful short-term trading
vehicle during periods of rapidly changing precious metals prices.”

52. These claims were false or misleading because Monex knew or recklessly
disregarded that approximately 90% of its leveraged Atlas customers lost money, in many cases
suffering catastrophic losses. Monex further knew or recklessly disregarded that these customers

never acquired any metals from Monex and therefore received neither security nor intrinsic value

from their investment.

15
~— ~ vA? ~ eo Am Pawar aranmn wats of reba ad. Fnac ia PNows o s wa boy ~
Case! i:1y-cv-060416 Document # 1 Fed: OS/OoO/1/ Page 16 of S2 PagelD ait
53. Monex has a vast amount of customer transactional information at its disposal.

Monex closely monitors its Atlas customers’ trading and the losses suffered by its customers.
Among other statistics, Monex monitors the value of open trading positions, available cash, and
customer profits or losses.

54. For example, in a daily “Position Report,” Monex captures a detailed snapshot of
each Atlas customer account with information including the account’s equity, cushion before a
margin call, available cash, trading position value, and the profit or loss on trading positions. In
its “Position Report Summary,” Monex tracks information for each Atlas customer account
including the number of trades executed by the account, profits or losses, the number of long
versus short trades, the total market value of trading positions for each account, and available
equity for additional trades. A “Customer Unrealized Loss” report shows Atlas customer
account unrealized losses, realized profits or losses and the market value of open trading
positions.

55. Monex keeps a database of Atlas transactional data. Using that database, Monex
circulates reports to management, including defendants Louis and Michael Carabini,
summarizing the data. These reports demonstrate that leveraged Atlas trading is not a “unique
and powerful way to acquire precious metals,” or a way to “protect” and “shield” wealth, or an
“outstanding short-term trading vehicle” with “outstanding profit potential.”

56. In its Atlas Account brochure, Monex also misleadingly tells customers and
prospects in written marketing materials that:

a. “The depository custodian will maintain the safekeeping of your precious metals
until you decide to sell them or take personal possession.”
b. “Your metals are your sole assets.”

c. “You are the sole owner of your metals and the sole decision maker on when to
buy and sell them.”

16
57. These claims are false and misleading because Monex can liquidate its Atlas

customers’ trading positions at any time in Monex’s sole discretion, and during the relevant
period significant numbers of leveraged Atlas customers experienced margin calls and forced
liquidations.

58. Reports from Monex’s database circulated to management, including defendants
Louis and Michael Carabini, summarizing the data, show that customer trading positions
frequently are liquidated without customer consent. For example, Monex generates “Forced
Liquidations” and “Equity Calls” reports that reflect the number of forced liquidations and
margin calls issued during a month. Monex has an “auto-force sell’ feature in its system that
automatically liquidates customer trading positions on a pool-wide basis if there is a sudden price
move causing equity in trading accounts to drop below the force liquidations level.

59. Monex sales training materials encourage sales representatives to lure prospects
into Atlas trading by emphasizing profit potential and security. For example, Monex sales
representatives were trained during the relevant period to use phrases on sales calls such as:

a. If gold were to increase in value by $100 per ounce in the next year, and you had
a 30% to 40% net gain, you'd feel pretty good, wouldn’t you?”

b. “Pd like to show you some ways that you might earn a very positive return on
investments in precious metals today.”

c. “Discover an opportunity to invest with defined risk, while enjoying the
possibility of unlimited upside potential.”

d. “Would you like the potential to earn an annualized rate of return of 20% or more
on your money?”

e. “Since you’re looking for short term profit, but with defined risk, I think you’ re
going to love the proposal I have for you.”

60. Such claims are false or misleading, because, for example, Monex knew or
recklessly disregarded the fact that during the relevant period leveraged Atlas customers who

experienced a “30% to 40% net gain” in a year or experienced a “very positive return” were

exceedingly rare, and instead most leveraged Atlas customers lost money.

17
— ~ aw) PP AAP PAR mmt G T MAA: MAIS ae Sy PA “~ oS
Case: | cv-06416 Document # 1 Filed: OS/O0o/1/ Page 18 of 2 Ragell 5
, . . . .

61. Many of Monex’s most egregious misrepresentations to customers are made in

unrecorded sales calls, where Monex sales representatives overcome reluctance to invest by
systematically downplaying the true risk of loss and maximizing the profit potential of investing
through the Atlas program, and misrepresenting the nature of Monex’s relationship with its
customers.

62. Monex sales representatives tell prospects and Atlas customers that investing in
the Atlas program is low risk, safe, and secure, when in fact investing in precious metals on
leverage in the Atlas Program is highly likely to result in the loss of customer funds, including in
substantial part through commissions and spreads that Monex itself pockets.

63. Sales representatives tell prospects and Atlas customers that because they are
investing in physical metals, their investments in the Atlas program will always be worth
something because while the value of precious metals fluctuates, metals have always maintained
intrinsic value. Sales representatives do not explain that because of leverage in the Atlas
program, customers can lose their entire investments, or that the metals that customers
supposedly “own” can be force liquidated by Monex without notice.

64. Monex training materials teach sales representatives to “close” sales with pitches
designed to earn the trust of prospective customers, through language emphasizing profit
potential and protection against losses. Training videos used with sales representatives discuss
overcoming hesitancy expressed by prospects by explaining that they have a fiduciary
relationship to Atlas customers analogous to the relationship between a lawyer and her client,
and that everything they do as sales representative will be in the prospect’s, or customer’s, best
interest. Sales representatives follow their training and make these claims to prospects and Atlas

customers. These claims are false, as Monex does not act as a fiduciary for its customers.

18
65. Despite the ready availability of transactional data showing significant losses

being suffered by Atlas customers, and in particular losses in accounts with higher leverage
ratios, Monex trains and incentivizes its sales representatives to encourage prospects to open
Atlas trading accounts, and to encourage frequent leveraged trading in these accounts.

66. Monex tells its newly hired account representative that a fundamental “key to
success” is “to build a large book of clients that trade metals.” Trainees are encouraged to
“Raise Money!,” “Have a sense of URGENCY,” and “Ask for the order on every call.”

67. Monex’s compensation structure for sales representatives reinforces the need to
open Atlas accounts and encourage leveraged trading in these accounts. Sales representatives
(and Monex) make more money if they get customers to open and place leveraged trades in Atlas
accounts. The higher the volume and dollar amount of trades, the more commissions and
bonuses Monex sales representatives make. The higher the volume and dollar amount of trades,
the more spread revenue Monex makes. The higher the loan and transaction amount, the more
interest and service fees Monex can charge.

68. The result of the foregoing is that numerous customers in this district and
elsewhere are defrauded into investing in the Atlas program, where many invariably suffer
significant financial losses. For example:

A. Customer A is a 61-year-old woman with limited English skills residing in
Charlotte, North Carolina. After her son was killed while serving with the U.S.
military in Iraq, she received approximately $400,000 from her son’s government-
issued life insurance policy. She called Monex in the spring of 2011, looking for
a safe and secure place to hold some of those funds, which represented her life

savings. Customer A’s Monex account representative told her that buying

19
~ Pa c oper : A a ¥
A PrAs tenement is oF stegaic FE rn :

Pines arya gomet oe Tb hLorbeses ¢ Terr Mail Les eve

y 5 * 4 Sar eT" sae 5 Qa oo

io MAAD EAGER TR. ak PERG AA. Aaa Ae

”
won
oe
oO
heh
one

precious metals from Monex was a safe and secure investment. The
representative promised her that he would provide her with investment advice
about the precious metals market and would watch her account every day. The
sales representative promised that profits on her investment would cover any fees
that Monex charged. Customer A sent Monex $173,500 in April and May

2011. Over a two year period, Customer A’s account representative made all
trading decisions and placed numerous leveraged trades in her account, all the
while telling Customer A that he was an expert in the metals market and that he
was handling her money in the safest and best way possible. Ultimately,

Customer A lost almost all of the money she invested with Monex.

. Customer B is a 77-year-old man residing in Texas. He contacted Monex in

August 2009 seeking a way to protect his and his wife’s life savings from a
downturn in the financial markets. Customer B’s Monex account representative
recommended an Atlas account for Customer B and his wife. The account
representative said that Monex would act as their trader or stockbroker, watching
the market and taking appropriate steps to protect their investment if the market
moved. The account representative downplayed the risks of investing in the
precious metals market, telling Customer B and his wife that they could not lose
their investment because they were buying “real metal,” would always own that
metal, and the metal would “always be worth something” and the account would
therefore “never go to zero.” The account representative never disclosed the true
risks of investing on leverage in an Atlas account. Customer B invested his and

his wife’s entire life savings of approximately $400,000 with Monex. Over the

20
~ pe cog : oe Se oa ¥
FN PAE DIN eta oF atesaic FRE ay 2° ;

Pines arya gomet oe Tb hLorbeses ¢ Orr Rafe fo hte

4 5 t 4 a enw eee s 4 : 4 :

La MwA PP ERS EE TR ok POOPERG AA. Sead Ae AF 3

”
won
wo
oO
heh
oy

life of the account, Monex made all trading decisions. Often the account
representative used high-pressure sales tactics to obtain Customer B’s verbal
consent to enter trades. Customer B did not understand that he was trading on
leverage. In 2013, Monex told Customer B that “things had gone crazy” in the
metals market. In April 2013, Customer B received back only $8,900 out of the

initial $400,000 investment.

. Customer C is a 45-year-old woman residing between Los Angeles and New York

City. In early 2011, she called Monex seeking a low-risk investment in precious
metals that would preserve her life savings of approximately $100,000. Customer
C’s Monex account representative convinced her to invest in Monex’s Atlas
Program, promising a 10% return by the end of the year, if not 20% or more. The
Monex representative downplayed the risks of the Atlas Program, telling
Customer C that she could not lose her investment because gold had never gone
down in price dramatically in 30 years, and “because it’s gold, it will never be
worth nothing. Gold will always have value, so you can’t lose your investment.”
The Monex account representative said that investing in Monex was “As safe as
having [her] money in a savings account.”’ Customer C told the Monex
representative that she could not afford to take any losses, and the representative
assured her that the Atlas account was safe and secure. Customer C invested
approximately $74,000, and ultimately lost all but approximately $29,000 of her

investment.

. Customer D is a 54-year-old woman residing in Newport Beach, California. In

August 2013, Customer D sent her entire retirement savings of more than $1

21
~Y MP AAR Ta mp annmt Ge fF PMA: MMe Par Maen £ ON PMA rm ~%

MUCHA Tin Pye PY T xe Po EPPO’ PIAS E PAP ob of ko rae ~ wa ey gary 3

Ae WAS AS ALS RG OPP a OPOOPER La, Wa AS g ALANS & X te LAS tha? oa
x

million to Monex, after a sales representative promised her that her investment
would be safe, that investing with Monex was low-risk, and that she and Monex
were experts and would watch the market for her and manage the investment.
The account representative began trading Customer D’s funds on leverage,
without explaining what she was doing or adequately disclosing the risks of
leveraged Atlas account trading. Customer D did not understand that her account
was trading on leverage. The account representative told her that she needed to
verbally consent to the trades that the representative was placing, and to just say
yes to the technical, jargon-filled questions the trade confirmation desk posed to
her. In less than a year and a half, Customer D’s account lost more than

$760,000.

. Customer E is a 69-year-old dual citizen of the United States and Italy, residing in

Italy. After inheriting gold coins from her father, Customer E contacted Monex in
late 2012. Customer E sent Monex the coins, then valued at nearly $175,000,
communicating that she wanted Monex to hold them. Customer E’s Monex
account representative told her that the Atlas account was a fairly safe way to
speculate in the metals market, and she could earn up to four times her investment
by using her gold to trade. Customer E said she did not want to speculate with her
gold coins and stressed that she could take no risks with the coins, but agreed to
separately send Monex a check for $10,000 to give the Atlas account a try (which
she never did send). Contrary to Customer E’s wishes and without her realizing
what Monex was doing, the account representative used the coins as collateral for

a loan that ultimately reached nearly $600,000. Customer E told Monex that she

22
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 23 of 32 PagelD #:23

could not understand the account statements sent to her, but the account
representative assured her that she could trust him and he assured her that her
account was being well handled. When Customer E requested to withdraw
$40,000 in May 2015, she learned that account held only approximately $37,700,
and that the rest had been lost in speculative leveraged silver trading.

69. In the end, trading in an Atlas account is not the safe, secure profitable investment
that Monex portrays it to be. Monex misrepresents the true profit potential and risk of loss in
leveraged Atlas trading when it knows or should know customers are highly likely to lose money
in these transactions. Customers are lured into a trap that is structured to enrich Monex, and the
customers stand little chance of escaping.

VIOLATIONS OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT

COUNT ONE AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS
Off-Exchange Transactions in Violation of Section 4(a) of the CEA

70. Paragraphs | through 70 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

71. Between July 16, 2011, and the present, Monex Deposit Company, Monex Credit
Company, and Newport Service Corporation (““Monex’’), both individually and also operating as a
common enterprise, and acting through various officer, employees or agents, violated Section 4(a)
of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a) (2012), by (a) offering to enter into, (b) entering into, (c) executing,
and (d) confirming the execution of retail commodity transactions; and (e) by conducting an
office or business in the United States for the purpose of soliciting, accepting any order for, or
otherwise dealing in retail commodity transactions.

72. Defendants Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini violated Section 4(a) of the
CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a), by conducting an office or business in the United States for the purpose of

soliciting, accepting any order for, or otherwise dealing in retail commodity transactions.

23
PON ee ek A PATS PRA Rent dis TOM RA MORIA ae > oy ~s ~
Case! 7 ov-06415 Document #: 1 Filed: O9/O6/17 Page 24 of S2 Pacell
73. The retail commodity transactions were offered, entered into and executed on a

leveraged or margined basis, or were financed by the offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting
in concert with the offeror or counterparty on a similar basis.

T4. The retail commodity transactions were offered to, entered into and executed with
persons who are not eligible contract participants or eligible commercial entities and who are not
engaged in a line of business related to precious metals.

75. The retail commodity transactions were not made or conducted on, or subject to,
the rules of any board of trade, exchange, or contract market.

76. The acts, omissions, and failures of Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini and
other officials, agents, or persons acting for Monex described in this Complaint occurred within
the scope of their employment, agency, or office with Monex, and are deemed to be the acts,
omissions, and failures of Monex by operation of Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C.

§ 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2017).

77. Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini controlled Monex and did not act in good
faith, or knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, the acts constituting Monex’s violations
alleged in this count. As a result, pursuant to Section 13(b) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b)
(2012), Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini are liable for Monex’s violations as controlling
persons.

78. Each act of offering to enter into, entering into, executing, confirming the
execution of, or conducting any office or business anywhere in the United States for the purpose
of soliciting, accepting any order for, or otherwise dealing in any transaction in, or in connection

with, retail commodity transactions, other than on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that

24
e eo oes om iS na r
Arent dis 4 teem ets MARR 4
Mociuiment # 1 Eien: GQO/Ogf ? Par
AAPP SRG SEE TR. ak PO PERG. eae Ae AF 3

rr

o

be

J?
fs

ste

r

“en

a

3 y

heh

ot

has been designated or registered by the Commission as a contract market, is alleged as a
separate and distinct violation of Section 4(a) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a).
COUNT TWO
AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS
Fraud in Violation of Section 4b(a)(2)(A) and (C) of the CEA

79. Paragraphs | through 70 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

80. Between July 16, 2011 and the present, Monex Deposit Company, Monex Credit
Company, and Newport Service Corporation (““Monex’’), both individually and also operating as a
common enterprise and acting through various officer, employees or agents, has (a) cheated or
defrauded retail customers, or (b) has attempted to cheat or defraud retail customers, or (c) has
willfully deceived or attempted to deceive retail customers in regard to orders for, or the
disposition or execution of, retail commodity transactions.

81. As more specifically set forth in paragraphs 46 through 70, Monex made material
misrepresentations to its customers about the safety, security and profit potential of trading on its
Atlas trading platform, and hid or failed to disclose material information necessary to make those
representations not misleading in any material respect.

82. Monex made these representations knowingly or with a reckless disregard to their
truth or falsity. Monex made these omissions knowingly, or with a reckless disregard for the
misleading description of the Atlas trading platform resulting from its failures to disclose
material information.

83. Pursuant to Section 2(c)(2)(D)(ii1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D) (ii) (2012),
the retail commodity transactions are subject to Section 4b of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6b (2012), as

if they are contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery.

25
84. Therefore, as a result of the foregoing conduct, Monex has violated Section
Ab(a)(2)(A) and (C) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(2)(A), (C) (2012).

85. The acts, omissions, and failures of Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini, and
other officials, agents, or persons acting for Monex described in this Complaint have occurred
within the scope of their employment, agency, or office with Monex, and are deemed to be the
acts, omissions, and failures of Monex by operation of Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C.
§ 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2017).

86. Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini controlled Monex and have not acted in
good faith or have knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, the acts constituting Monex’s
violations alleged in this count. As a result, pursuant to Section 13(b) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C.

§ 13c(b) (2012), Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini are liable for Monex’s violations of
Section 4b(a)(2)(A) and (C) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(2)(A), (C), as controlling persons.

87. Each act of cheating or defrauding or attempting to cheat or defraud retail
customers, willfully making or causing to be made to retail customers false reports or statements,
or willfully deceiving or attempting to deceive retail customers in regard to orders for, or the
disposition or execution of, retail commodity transactions, is alleged as a separate and distinct
violation of Section 4b(a)(2)(A) and (C) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(2)(A), (C).

COUNT THREE
AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS
Fraud in Violation of Section 6(c)(1) of the CEA and Regulation 180.1(a)(1)-(3)

88. Paragraphs | through 70 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

89. Between August 15, 2011 and the present, Monex Deposit Company, Monex
Credit Company, and Newport Service Corporation (“Monex’’), both individually and also

operating as a common enterprise and acting through various officer, employees or agents, has

26
intentionally or recklessly, in connection with contracts of sale of commodities in interstate

commerce,
A. used or employed, or attempted to use or employ, a scheme or artifice to defraud;
B. made, or attempted to make, in connection with contracts of sale of commodities

in interstate commerce, untrue or misleading statements of material fact, or omitted to state
material facts necessary to make the statements made not untrue or misleading; and/or

C. engaged in, or attempted to engage in, acts, practices, or a course of business that
operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit on Monex’s customers.

90. As a result of the foregoing conduct, Monex’s fraudulent conduct violated Section
6(c)(1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 91) (2012), and Regulation 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R.

§ 180.1(a)(1)-() 2017).

91. The acts, omissions, and failures of Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini and
other officials, agents, or persons acting for Monex described in this Complaint have occurred
within the scope of their employment, agency, or office with Monex, and are deemed to be the
acts, omissions, and failures of Monex by operation of Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C.
§ 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2017).

92. Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini controlled Monex and have not acted in
good faith or have knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, the acts constituting Monex’s
violations alleged in this count. As a result, pursuant to Section 13(b) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C.

§ 13c(b) (2012), Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini are liable for Monex’s violations of
Section 6(c)(1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1), and Regulation 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R.

§ 180.1(a)(1)-(G), as controlling persons.

27
t
93. Each use or employment or attempted use or employment of any manipulative

device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; untrue or misleading statement of fact, omission of
material fact necessary to make statements not untrue or misleading; or act of engaging, or
attempting to engage, in acts, practices or courses of business that operated or would have
operated as a fraud or deceit on Monex’s customers is alleged as a separate and distinct violation
of Section 6(c)(1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1), and Regulation 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R.
§ 180.1(a)(1)-@).
COUNT FOUR
AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS
Violation of Section 4d of the CEA for Failure to Register
with Respect to Financed Transactions

94. Paragraphs | through 70 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

95. The CEA defines a “futures commission merchant” to include any individual,
association, partnership, corporation, or trust that, among other things, is engaged in soliciting or
accepting orders for any agreement, contract, or transaction described in Section 2(c)(2)(D)@) of
the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D)G) (2012), or acts as a counterparty to such transaction, and in or
in connection with that activity accepts any money, securities, or property (or extends credit in
lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades or contracts that result or may result
therefrom. Section 1a(28)(A) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(28)(A)(2012).

96. Between July 16, 2011 and the present, Monex Deposit Company, Monex Credit
Company, and Newport Service Corporation (““Monex’’), both individually and also operating as a
common enterprise and acting through various officer, employees or agents, accepted orders for

agreements, contracts, or transactions described in Section 2(c)(2)(D)@) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. §

2(c)(2)(D)(), and acted as the counterparty to Atlas transactions, and in connection with that

28
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 29 of 32 PagelD #:29

conduct accepted money and property (or extended credit in lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee or
secure the these trades or contracts.

97. Section 4d(1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(1) (2012), provides that “[it] shall be
unlawful for any person to be a futures commission merchant unless— such person shall have
registered . . . with the Commission as such futures commission merchant.”

98. Between July 16, 2011 and the present, Monex failed to register with the
Commission as a futures commission merchant and has therefore violated Section 4d of the
CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6d.

99. The acts, omissions, and failures of Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini and
other officials, agents, or persons acting for Monex described in this Complaint have occurred
within the scope of their employment, agency, or office with Monex and are deemed to be the
acts, omissions, and failures of Monex by operation of Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C.
§ 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2017).

100. Louis Carabini and Michael Carabini have controlled Monex and have not acted
in good faith or have knowingly induced the acts constituting the violations of Monex described
in this Count. Pursuant to Section 13(b) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b) (2012), Louis Carabini
and Michael Carabini are therefore liable as controlling persons for Monex’s violations of
Section 4d of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 6d.

RELIEF REQUESTED
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court, as authorized by

Section 6c of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), and pursuant to its own equitable powers:

29
A. Find Defendants liable for violating Sections 4(a), 4b(a)(2)(A), (C), 4d, and
6(c)(1) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6(a), 6b(a)(2)(A),(C), 6d, 9(1) (2012), and Regulation
180.1(a)(1)-G), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2017).

B. Enter an order of permanent injunction enjoining Defendants and all persons
insofar as they are acting as Defendants’ agents, servants, employees, successors, assigns, and
attorneys, and all persons insofar as they are acting in active concert or participation with
Defendants who receive actual notice of such order by personal service or otherwise, from
directly or indirectly:

1. Engaging in conduct in violation of Sections 4(a), 4b(a)(2)(A), (C), 4d, and 6(c)(1) of the
CEA, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6(a), 6b(a)(2)(A), (C), 4d, 9(1), and Regulation 180.1(a)(1)-(3),

17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)C1)-(3);

2. Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in
Section la of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § la (2012));

3. Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is defined in
Commission Regulation 1.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(yy) (2017)), for Defendants’ own
accounts or for any account in which they have a direct or indirect interest;

4. Having any commodity interests traded on Defendants’ behalf;

5. Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity, whether
by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving commodity interests;

6. Soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

7. Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the Commission

in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such registration or exemption

30
~ te so omeee Spm Se te y
PNA mrrrmnmmt Gf: tT Rie aA: Mme ia:
Pyare PY T xe Poe PECANS PRE be Sy OF kee re
io MAA ERS EL TP. Ak oP fk Aa, Aa Ag A. 8 ¢

rr

o

pe

J?
fs

ste

r

me

a

3 y

heh

ot

from registration with the Commission, except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9),

17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)Q9) (2017); and/or
8. Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a)

(2017)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person (as that term is defined in

Section 1a(38) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)) registered, exempted from registration, or

required to be registered with the Commission, except as provided for in Regulation

4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2017);

C. Enter an order requiring Defendants to disgorge to any officer appointed or
directed by the Court, or directly to customers, all benefits received, including, but not limited to,
salaries, commissions, loans, fees, revenues, and trading profits derived, directly or indirectly,
from acts or practices which constitute violations of the CEA as described herein, including pre-
judgment and post-judgment interest;

D. Enter an order requiring Defendants, as well as any of their successors, to make
full restitution, pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, to every person or entity
whose funds were received or utilized by them in violation of the provisions of the CEA and/or
Regulations, as described herein, plus pre-judgment interest thereon from the date of such
violations, plus post-judgment interest;

E. Enter an order directing Defendants and any successors thereof to rescind,
pursuant to such procedures as the Court may order, all contracts and agreements, whether
implied or express, entered into between Defendants and any of the customers whose funds were
received by Defendants as a result of the acts and practices which constituted violations of the
CEA as described herein and restore to each customer the full amount of his or her original

investment;

31
Case: 1:17-cv-06416 Document #: 1 Filed: 09/06/17 Page 32 of 32 PagelD #:32

F, Enter an order directing each Defendant to pay a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of not more than the greater of: (1) triple the monetary gain to Defendants for each
violation of the CEA or Regulations; or (2) $170,472 for each violation of the CEA or
Regulations;

G. Enter an order requiring Defendants to pay costs and fees as permitted by
28 U.S.C. §§ 1920 and 2412(a)(2) (2012); and

H. Enter an order providing such other and further relief as this Court may deem
necessary and appropriate under the circumstances.

Date: September 6, 2017 Respectfully submitted,

/s Carlin R. Metzger

 

Carlin R. Metzger (cmetzger@cftc.gov)
Senior Trial Attorney

 

Michael D. Frisch (mfrisch @cftc.gov)
Trial Attorney

 

Eric L. Schleef (eschleef@cftc.gov)
Trial Attorney

 

Joseph A. Konizeski (konizeski@cftc.gov)
Chief Trial Attorney

 

Scott R. Williamson
(swilliamson @ cftc.gov)
Deputy Regional Counsel

 

Rosemary Hollinger (rhollinger @cftc.gov)
Deputy Director

 

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
525 West Monroe Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, Illinois 60661

(312) 596-0536 (Metzger)

(312) 596-0700 (main office number)
(312) 596-0714 (facsimile)

32
