Release Number 7127-15

 

February 26, 2015

Kevin G. White Sentenced to over Eight Years in Federal Prison for $7.4 Million Commodity
Pool Investment Scam

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced that Kevin G. White of
The Woodlands, Texas, who orchestrated a $7.4 million commodity pool investment scam during which he
misappropriated approximately $1.7 million from pool participants, was sentenced to over eight years in federal prison
for charges related to his fraudulent misconduct. Earlier, on December 11, 2013, White pleaded guilty to committing mail
fraud for his actions in connection with the scam.

The criminal charges arose from White’s solicitation fraud and misappropriation of pool participant funds, as charged ina
Complaint filed by the CFTC on July 9, 2013 (see CFTC Press Release 6644-13, July 12, 2013), and a companion Complaint
filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. According to the CFTC’s Complaint, White, along two other Defendants
in the CFTC’s action, RFF GP, LLC, and KGW Capital Management, LLC, duped pool participants into investing in
Revelation Forex Fund, LP, a purported hedge fund and commodity pool. The CFTC’s Complaint further alleged that in
making their solicitations through two websites and at a tradeshow presentation, White fabricated Revelation’s
performance and lied about his investment experience. A proposed consent Order between the CFTC and White, RFF GP,
and KGW Capital is currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.

Aitan Goelman, the CFTC’s Director of Enforcement, stated: “The sentence in this case should serve as a warning that
those who willfully commit fraud in our markets face the very real possibility of a significant term of imprisonment. The
CFTC will continue its vigilance in protecting commodities and derivatives investors from fraud and other forms of
financial crime.”

The CFTC congratulates the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas for its successful prosecution of this
matter.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for the related CFTC case are Harry E. Wedewer, Dmitriy
Vilenskiy, John Einstman, and Paul G. Hayeck.

*K OK OK OOK OK OK
CFTC’s Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory, which warns customers about a type of fraud that involves individuals and firms, often
unregistered, offering investments in commodity pools.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: February 26, 2015
