U.S. Department of Justice

United States Attorney Criminal Division
Eastern District of New York Fraud Section

 

 

271 Cadman Plaza East Bond Building
Brooklyn, New York 11201 1400 New York Ave., NW
Washington, DC 20005

November 17, 2016

Mark F. Mendelsohn, Esq.

Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP
2001 K Street, NW

Washington, DC 20006

Re: JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited Criminal Investigation
Dear Mr. Mendelsohn:

The United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and the United
States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York (collectively, the “Offices”) and
JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited (“JPMorgan-APAC” or the “Company”) pursuant to
authority granted by JPMorgan-APAC’s Board of Directors, enter into this Non-Prosecution
Agreement (“Agreement”). JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMC”), pursuant to authority granted by
JPMC’s Board of Directors, also agrees to certain terms and obligations of the Agreement as
described below.

The Offices enter into this Agreement based on the individual facts and circumstances
presented by this case and the Company, including:

a) the Company did not receive voluntary disclosure credit because neither it nor
JPMC voluntarily and timely disclosed to the Offices the conduct described in the Statement of
Facts attached hereto as Attachment A (“Statement of Facts”);

b) the Company received full credit for its and JPMC’s cooperation with the Offices’
investigation, including conducting a thorough internal investigation, making regular factual
presentations to the Offices, voluntarily making foreign-based employees available for interviews
in the United States, producing documents to the Offices from foreign countries in ways that did
not implicate foreign data privacy laws, and collecting, analyzing, and organizing voluminous
evidence and information for the Offices;

c) by the conclusion of the investigation, JPMC provided to the Offices all relevant
facts known to it, including information about individuals involved in the misconduct;
d) the Company and JPMC engaged in extensive remedial measures, including:
(1) causing five employees who participated in the misconduct described in the Statement of Facts
to separate from the Company—one employee resigned after being placed on leave, one employee
received a notice of separation while on leave, and three employees resigned or retired after
receiving a notice of separation; (2) causing one employee who failed to identify issues with
referral hiring and failed to take appropriate steps to mitigate risks to separate from the Company;
(3) disciplining an additional twenty-three employees who failed to detect the misconduct, failed
to supervise effectively those who were engaged in the misconduct, failed to take appropriate
steps to mitigate corruption and compliance risks, and/or who were lower-level employees
engaged in the misconduct at the direction of supervisors; (4) imposing more than $18.3 million in
financial sanctions on former or current employees in connection with the remediation efforts; (5)
conducting individualized training for certain remaining employees; (6) adopting heightened
controls related to their hiring programs, including standardizing hiring programs and requiring
that every application for a hire be routed through a centralized human resources application
process; (7) more than doubling their resources devoted to compliance, particularly in the Asia-
Pacific region; and (8) requiring improved Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) training;

e) the Company and JPMC have enhanced and are committed to continuing to
enhance their compliance programs and internal controls, including ensuring that their compliance
programs satisfy the minimum elements set forth in Attachment B to this Agreement (Corporate
Compliance Program);

f) accordingly, after considering (a) through (e) above, the Company received an
aggregate discount of 25% off of the bottom of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range;

g) based on the Company’s and JPMC’s remediation and the state of their compliance
programs, and the Company’s and JPMC’s agreement to report to the Offices as set forth in
Attachment C to this Agreement (Corporate Compliance Reporting), the Offices determined that
an independent compliance monitor was unnecessary;

h) the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct, including that certain senior
executives and employees of the Company conspired to engage in quid pro quo agreements with
Chinese officials to obtain investment-banking business, planned and executed a program to
provide specific personal benefits to senior Chinese officials in the position to award or influence
the award of banking mandates, and repeatedly falsified or caused to be falsified internal
compliance documents in place to prevent the specific conduct at issue here; and

i) the Company and JPMC (on its behalf and through its subsidiaries and affiliates)
have agreed to continue to cooperate with the Offices in any ongoing investigation of the conduct
of the Company, JPMC, their subsidiaries and affiliates and their officers, directors, employees,
agents, business partners, distributors, and consultants relating to violations of the FCPA.

The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under United States
law for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth in the Statement of
Facts and incorporated by reference into this Agreement, and that the facts described in the
Statement of Facts are true and accurate. The Company expressly agrees that it shall not, through
present or future attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents, or any other person authorized
to speak for the Company make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise, contradicting the
acceptance of responsibility by the Company set forth above or the facts described in the
Statement of Facts. The Company agrees that if it, its parent company, or any of its direct or
indirect subsidiaries or affiliates issues a press release or holds any press conference in connection
with this Agreement, the Company shall first consult the Offices to determine: (a) whether the text
of the release or proposed statements at the press conference are true and accurate with respect to
matters between the Offices and the Company; and (b) whether the Offices have any objection to
the release.

The Company’s and JPMC’s obligations under this Agreement shall have a term of three
years from the date on which the Agreement is executed (the “Term”).

The Company and JPMC shall cooperate fully with the Offices in any and all matters
relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of Facts and other conduct
related to corrupt payments, false books and records, failure to implement adequate internal
accounting controls, and circumvention of internal controls under investigation by the Offices,
subject to applicable law and regulations, until the later of the date upon which all investigations
and prosecutions arising out of such conduct are concluded or the Term. At the request of the
Offices, the Company and JPMC shall also cooperate fully with other domestic or foreign law
enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as the Multilateral Development
Banks (“MDBs”), in any investigation of the Company, its parent company or its affiliates, or any
of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, and consultants, or any other party,
in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of
Facts, and other conduct related to corrupt payments, false books and records, failure to
implement adequate internal accounting controls, and circumvention of internal controls under
investigation by the Offices. The Company and JPMC agree that their cooperation shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:

a) The Company and JPMC shall, subject to applicable law and regulation, truthfully
disclose all factual information not protected by a valid claim of attorney-client privilege or work-
product doctrine with respect to their activities, those of their affiliates, and those of their present
and former directors, officers, employees, agents, and consultants, including any credible evidence
or allegations and internal or external investigations, about which the Company or JPMC have any
knowledge or about which the Offices may inquire. This obligation of truthful disclosure
includes, but is not limited to, the obligation of the Company and JPMC to provide to the Offices,
upon request, any document, record or other tangible evidence about which the Offices may
inquire of the Company and JPMC.

b) Upon request of the Offices, the Company and JPMC shall designate
knowledgeable employees, agents or attorneys to provide to the Offices the information and
materials described above on behalf of the Company and JPMC. It is further understood that the
Company and JPMC must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate information.

c) The Company and JPMC shall use their best efforts to make available for
interviews or testimony, as requested by the Offices, present or former officers, directors,
employees, agents, and consultants of the Company and JPMC. This obligation includes, but is
not limited to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, as well as
interviews with domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities. Cooperation
shall include identification of witnesses who, to the knowledge of the Company or JPMC, may
have material information regarding the matters under investigation.

d) With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records or other tangible
evidence provided to the Offices pursuant to this Agreement, the Company and JPMC consent to
any and all disclosures, subject to applicable law and regulations, to other governmental
authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign government, as well as
MDBs, of such materials as the Offices, in their sole discretion, shall deem appropriate.

In addition, during the Term of the Agreement, should the Company or JPMC learn of
credible evidence or allegations of actual or potentially corrupt payments, false books, records,
and accounts, or the failure to implement adequate internal accounting controls, the Company or
JPMC shall promptly report such evidence or allegations to the Offices. No later than thirty (30)
days after the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, the Company, by the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, will certify to the Offices that the Company has met its disclosure
obligations pursuant to this Agreement. Such certification will be deemed a material statement
and representation by the Company to the executive branch of the United States for purposes of 18
U.S.C. § 1001.

The Company and JPMC represent that they have implemented and will continue to
implement a compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations of the
FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws throughout their operations, including those of
their affiliates, agents, and joint ventures, and those of their contractors and subcontractors whose
responsibilities include interacting with foreign officials or other activities carrying a high risk of
corruption, including, but not limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment B
(Corporate Compliance Program), which is incorporated by reference into this Agreement. In
addition, the Company and JPMC agree that they will report to the Offices annually during the
Term of the Agreement regarding remediation and implementation of the compliance measures
described in Attachment B. These reports will be prepared in accordance with Attachment C
(Corporate Compliance Reporting).

The Company agrees to pay a monetary penalty in the amount of $72,000,000 to the
United States Treasury within ten (10) business days of the execution of the Agreement. The
monetary penalty is based upon profits of at least $35 million as a result of the corrupt scheme,
and reflects a discount of 25% off of the bottom of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range.
This monetary penalty is in addition to the $130,591,405 disgorgement of profits plus
prejudgment interest by JPMC in connection with its resolution with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in a related matter. The Company acknowledges that no tax deduction
may be sought in connection with the payment of any part of this $72,000,000 penalty. The
Company shall not seek or accept directly or indirectly reimbursement or indemnification from
any source, other than from JPMC or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries, with regard to the penalty
or disgorgement amounts that the Company pays pursuant to this Agreement or any other
agreement concerning the facts set forth in the Statement of Facts entered into with an
enforcement authority or regulator.
The Offices agree, except as provided herein, that they will not bring any criminal or civil
case (except for criminal tax violations, as to which the Offices do not make any agreement)
against the Company or any of its present or former parents or subsidiaries relating to: (1) any of
the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts; (2) the hiring or treatment of individuals
referred by clients, prospective clients, and other government officials as disclosed to the Offices
prior to the signing of this Agreement; and (3) the payment of speaking fees to individuals and
entities in China as described to the Offices prior to the signing of this Agreement. The Offices,
however, may use any information related to the conduct described in the attached Statement of
Facts against the Company: (a) in a prosecution for perjury or obstruction of justice; (b) ina
prosecution for making a false statement; (c) in a prosecution or other proceeding relating to any
crime of violence; or (d) in a prosecution or other proceeding relating to a violation of any
provision of Title 26 of the United States Code. This Agreement does not provide any protection
against prosecution for any future conduct by the Company or any of its present or former parents
or subsidiaries. In addition, this Agreement does not provide any protection against prosecution
of any individuals, regardless of their affiliation with the Company.

If, during the Term of this Agreement: (a) the Company commits any felony under U.S.
federal law; (b) the Company or JPMC provides in connection with this Agreement deliberately
false, incomplete, or misleading information; (c) the Company or JPMC fails to cooperate as set
forth in this Agreement; (d) the Company or JPMC fails to implement a compliance program as
set forth in this Agreement and Attachment C; (e) the Company or JPMC commits any acts that,
had they occurred within the jurisdictional reach of the FCPA, would be a violation of the FCPA;
or (f) the Company or JPMC otherwise fails specifically to perform or to fulfill completely each of
the Company’s and JPMC’s obligations under the Agreement, regardless of whether the Offices
become aware of such a breach after the Term of the Agreement is complete, the Company and
JPMC, and their subsidiaries and affiliates, shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any
federal criminal violation of which the Offices have knowledge, including, but not limited to, the
conduct described in the Statement of Facts, which may be pursued by the Offices in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of New York or any other appropriate venue. Determination
of whether the Company or JPMC has breached the Agreement and whether to pursue prosecution
of the Company shall be in the Offices’ sole discretion. Any such prosecution may be premised
on information provided by the Company, JPMC, or their subsidiaries or affiliates. Any such
prosecution relating to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts or relating to conduct
known to the Offices prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred
by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement may be
commenced against the Company, JPMC, or their subsidiaries or affiliates, notwithstanding the
expiration of the statute of limitations, between the signing of this Agreement and the expiration
of the Term plus one year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the Company and JPMC agree that
the statute of limitations with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-barred on the date of
the signing of this Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. In addition, the
Company and JPMC agree that the statute of limitations as to any violation of U.S. federal law
that occurs during the Term will be tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs until the
earlier of the date upon which the Offices are made aware of the violation or the duration of the
Term plus five years, and that this period shall be excluded from any calculation of time for
purposes of the application of the statute of limitations.
In the event the Offices determine that the Company or JPMC has breached this
Agreement, the Offices agree to provide the Company and JPMC with written notice of such
breach prior to instituting any prosecution resulting from such breach. Within thirty (30) days of
receipt of such notice, the Company and JPMC shall have the opportunity to respond to the
Offices in writing to explain the nature and circumstances of such breach, as well as the actions
the Company and JPMC have taken to address and remediate the situation, which explanation the
Offices shall consider in determining whether to pursue prosecution of the Company, JPMC, or
their subsidiaries or affiliates.

In the event that the Offices determine that the Company or JPMC has breached this
Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Company, JPMC, or their subsidiaries
or affiliates to the Offices or to the Court, including the Statement of Facts, and any testimony
given by the Company before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative hearings,
whether prior or subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads derived from such statements or
testimony, shall be admissible in evidence in any and all criminal proceedings brought by the
Offices against the Company, JPMC, or their subsidiaries or affiliates; and (b) the Company,
JPMC, or their subsidiaries or affiliates shall not assert any claim under the United States
Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the Federal
Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that any such statements or testimony made by or on
behalf of the Company, JPMC, or their subsidiaries or affiliates prior or subsequent to this
Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom, should be suppressed or are otherwise inadmissible.
The decision whether conduct or statements of any current director, officer or employee, or any
person acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, the Company, JPMC, or their subsidiaries or
affiliates will be imputed to the Company or JPMC for the purpose of determining whether the
Company or JPMC has violated any provision of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of
the Offices.

Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular
transaction, the Company agrees that in the event that, during the Term of the Agreement, it
undertakes any change in corporate form, including if it sells, merges, or transfers business
operations that are material to the Company’s consolidated operations or to the operations of any
subsidiaries or affiliates involved in the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached
hereto, as they exist as of the date of this Agreement, whether such change is structured as a sale,
asset sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form, it shall include in any contract for
sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form a provision binding the purchaser, or any
successor in interest thereto, to the obligations described in this Agreement. The Company shall
obtain approval from the Offices at least thirty (30) days prior to undertaking any such sale,
merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form, including dissolution, in order to give the
Offices an opportunity to determine if such change in corporate form would impact the terms or
obligations of the Agreement.

This Agreement is binding on the Company, JPMC, and the Offices but specifically does
not bind any other component of the Department of Justice, other federal agencies, or any state,
local, or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, or any other authorities, although the
Offices will bring the cooperation of the Company and JPMC and their compliance with their
other obligations under this Agreement to the attention of such agencies and authorities if
requested to do so by the Company or JPMC.
It is further understood that the Company, JPMC, and the Offices may disclose this
Agreement to the public.

This Agreement sets forth all the terms of the agreement between the Company, JPMC,
and the Offices. No amendments, modifications, or additions to this Agreement shall be valid
unless they are in writing and signed by the Offices, the attorneys for the Company and JPMC,
and a duly authorized representative of the Company.

Sincerely,
Robert L. Capers Andrew Weissmann, Chief
United States Attorney Sandra L. Moser, Principal Deputy Chief
Eastern District of New York Daniel S. Kahn, Deputy Chief

Criminal Division, Fraud Section
U.S. Department of Justice

Hernan 0 DH

L . Tsao, Assistant Chief
James P. McDonald, Trial Attorney
Derek J. Ettinger, Trial Attorney

Date: nira} Io Date: “fly 016

AGREED AND CONSENTED TO:

 

JPMORGAN SECURITIES (ASIA PACIFIC) LIMITED

Date: lly 7 PAL By: ; : a4
Stacey R. Friedman, Esq.

General Counsel, JPMorgan Chase & Co.

Date: //17/ZOlb By: / lity 9. 4A_—

Mark F. Mendelsohn, Esq.
Counsel for JPMorgan Securities (Asia
Pacific) Limited
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.

Date: UT Zal6
Date: ! / U W774

  

By:

   

Stacey R. Friedman, Esq.
General Counsel, JPMorgan Chase & Co.

Mark F. Mendelsohn, Esq.
Counsel for JPMorgan Chase & Co.
ATTACHMENT A
STATEMENT OF FACTS

1. The following Statement of Facts is incorporated by reference as part of the Non-
Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement”) between the United States Department of Justice,
Criminal Division, Fraud Section, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of
New York (collectively, the “Offices”), and the defendant JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific)
Limited (“JPMorgan-APAC” or the “Company”). Certain of the facts herein are based on
information obtained from third parties by the Offices through their investigation and provided to
the Company. JPMorgan-APAC hereby agrees and stipulates that the following facts and
conclusions of law are true and accurate. JPMorgan-APAC admits, accepts, and acknowledges
that it is responsible for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth
below.

Relevant Entities and Individuals

2. JPMorgan Chase & Co., a Delaware incorporated and New York headquartered
financial services firm, and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies (collectively, “JPMorgan”)
provided numerous types of financial services, including investment banking, globally.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s shares were publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange and it
was an “issuer” within the meaning of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15,
United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).

3. JPMorgan-APAC was a Hong Kong registered company and wholly owned
subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co. JPMorgan-APAC, which was headquartered in Hong
Kong, principally carried out investment banking under the “JPMorgan” brand for the Asia-

Pacific region. JPMorgan-APAC was an “agent” of an issuer within the meaning of the FCPA,
Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a), and a number of its employees and agents were
each a “person” within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-
3(a) and (f)(1). Many of JPMorgan-APAC’s clients in China were state-owned enterprises
(“SOEs”), which were owned and controlled by the government of China and performed a
function that the government treated as its own, and thus were each an “instrumentality” within
the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1) and 78dd-3(f)(2).
Employees of these customers and clients were therefore “foreign officials” within the meaning
of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1) and 78dd-3(f)(2).

Relevant JPMorgan-APAC Clients and Government Officials

4. “Client 1,” an entity whose identity is known to the United States and the
Company, was a state-owned and controlled Chinese financial services firm and an
instrumentality within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-
1(f)(1) and 78dd-3(f)(2) (“instrumentality”).

Ss “Client 2,” an entity whose identity is known to the United States and the
Company, was a private Chinese manufacturing company.

6. “Client 3,” an entity whose identity is known to the United States and the
Company, was a Taiwanese private financial holding company.

Te “Client 4,” an entity whose identity is known to the United States and the
Company, was a state-owned and controlled Chinese bank and financial services firm and an
instrumentality.

8. “Chinese Official 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the United States

and the Company, was the Deputy Minister of a Chinese government agency and a foreign
official within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States’ Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1) and
78dd-3(f)(2) (“foreign official”).

9, “Chinese Official 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the United States
and the Company, was an Executive Vice President of Client 4 and a foreign official.

Overview of the Scheme

10. In or about and between 2006 and 2013, JPMorgan-APAC had a compliance
review process to screen candidates for employment who had been referred to the Company by
its clients, potential clients, and government officials. This process was supposed to ensure
compliance with JPMorgan’s anti-corruption policies including that referred candidates were not
hired as part of guid pro quo arrangements, whereby the Company would win business from the
referral source in exchange for hiring the applicant.

11. Beginning in or about 2006 and continuing until at least in or about 2012,
however, JPMorgan-APAC bankers set up and used a program (the “Client Referral Program”)
to hire referred candidates specifically for the purpose of influencing senior officials at clients to
award business to the Company and, in certain instances, to achieve the very quid pro quo
arrangements the compliance review process and JPMorgan’s policies sought to prevent.
Company employees sometimes referred to the Client Referral Program as the “Sons and
Daughters Program.”

Ty Although such quid pro quo hiring arrangements initially occurred in certain
instances, in or about November 2009, JPMorgan-APAC executives and senior bankers
institutionalized the practice of making hires for the purpose of winning specific business
mandates, and revamped the Client Referral Program to improve its efficacy by prioritizing those

hires linked to upcoming client transactions. The changes to the Client Referral Program were
made by senior JPMorgan-APAC investment bankers. Under the revamped Client Referral
Program, referred candidates for employment needed, to quote a presentation prepared by
JPMorgan-APAC employees responsible for implementing the program, a “[d]irectly attributable
linkage to business opportunity” to be considered for a job.

13. As aresult of the scheme to corruptly influence senior officials at clients and
potential clients through the Client Referral Program, the Company received investment banking
mandates from Chinese SOEs whose executives referred candidates to the Company. The
Company earned at least $35 million in profits from those mandates.

Relevant JPMorgan-APAC Policies and Hiring Procedures

14. In or about 2001, JPMorgan established a policy that applied to, among other
entities, JPMorgan-APAC and which prohibited the hiring of children or relatives of clients and
potential clients in order to obtain business. On or about March 31, 2006, a JPMorgan-APAC
managing director sent an e-mail to all JPMorgan-APAC investment bankers reiterating that
policy and stating, in part:

As you know, the firm does not condone the hiring of the children
or other relatives of clients or potential clients of the Firm . . . for
the purpose of securing or potentially securing business for the
Firm. In fact, the firm’s policies expressly forbid this. There are
no exceptions. . . . [T]he Firm recognizes that from time to time we
want to make offers to people who may raise the appearance of a
conflict of interest or even a regulatory issue, with respect to their
parents or relatives holding senior ownership or management
positions in companies that the Firm may have or wish to have as
its clients, or other regulatory or governmental or quasi-
governmental positions. In light of that, the firm has developed a
“Sons & Daughters” program that sets out clear parameters within

which we are prepared to analyze and potentially make such
offers.!

' Unless bracketed, all quotations appear as in the original document, without corrections
or indications of misspellings or typographical errors.

A-4
15. Thereafter, JPMorgan-APAC’s Legal and Compliance Department circulated a
“Questionnaire for Potential Hire Under the ‘Sons & Daughters Program’” (the “Compliance
Questionnaire”) to be used as part of the compliance screening process. The Compliance
Questionnaire focused on FCPA and other risks and required the bankers who wanted to hire
applicants who had been referred by both private and SOE clients and potential clients and
government officials, to disclose, among other things: (1) whether the applicant was qualified for
the position; (2) whether the applicant had gone through the normal interviewing process; (3)
whether the referring client/potential client was government-related; (4) whether the firm was
actively pitching for any business from the client/potential client; and (5) whether there was an
“expected benefit to JPMorgan” for hiring the referred candidate.

16. In or about September 2007, JPMorgan broadened its FCPA policy into a global
anti-corruption policy, which applied to JPMorgan-APAC and provided that “the offer of
internships or training for relatives of a public official” required legal and compliance pre-
clearance and that hiring to win business was prohibited. At or around the same time, in
connection with the new policy, JPMorgan-APAC compliance employees trained bankers that
pre-clearance was required from the legal and compliance department because “[a]n offer of
internship to a relative of a non-U.S. public official suggests an advantage by causing the official
to misuse his or her position.”

17. Inor about June 2011, JPMorgan implemented an updated global Anti-Corruption
Policy, which applied to JPMorgan-APAC. A training presentation on this policy advised that
“almost anything can meet the definition of a ‘bribe,’ including . . . . internships [and]

employment.” The updated policy further advised that “[n]o employee may directly or indirectly
offer, promise, grant or authorize the giving of money or anything else of value to a government
official to influence official action or obtain an improper advantage.”
The Corrupt Use of the Client Referral Program

18. Beginning no later than in or about late 2007, JPMorgan-APAC investment
bankers used the hiring of client-referred candidates in certain instances as a tool to influence
senior officials at clients and prospective clients to obtain banking business. During this period,
the Compliance Questionnaire was routinely used by both JPMorgan-APAC investment bankers
and personnel responsible for compliance matters. To obtain approval to make these hires,
JPMorgan-APAC bankers and supporting personnel provided incorrect, misleading, and
untruthful responses to the Compliance Questionnaire. Rather than using the Compliance
Questionnaire to determine if a referral hire was done for the purpose of obtaining or retaining
business, JPMorgan-APAC employees, including support personnel, falsely used the forms to
justify and paper over corrupt business arrangements. In addition, JPMorgan-APAC compliance
personnel drafted and modified Compliance Questionnaires that failed to state the true purpose
for hiring some referred candidates. For instance, in or about January 2007, JPMorgan-APAC
employees, including compliance employees, began using a template for the Compliance
Questionnaire with certain answers pre-filled in, including the answer “No expected benefit” in
response to a question requiring an explanation for what was the intended benefit to the firm
from the referral hire.

JPMorgan-APAC Management Refocused the Client Referral Program to
Corruptly Obtain Business Mandates

19, In or about September 2009, JPMorgan-APAC bankers sought to expand and

further capitalize on the use of improper referral hiring. On or about September 5, 2009, a
JPMorgan-APAC managing director (“JPMorgan-APAC Employee 1”) wrote an e-mail to his
JPMorgan supervisor that stated:

One specific item that we may need your help is how to run a

better sons and daughters program, which has an almost linear

relationship with mandates in China. People believe [other

investment banks] are doing a much better job. On the other hand,

we J.P.Morgan have had a few disas[t]rous cases which I can share

with you later. We have more LoBs [lines of business] in China

therefore in theory we can accommodate more ‘powerful’ sons and

daughters that could benefit the entire platform.

20. Following this e-mail, various senior members of JPMorgan-APAC management
met on repeated occasions to discuss revamping the Client Referral Program to improve
JPMorgan-APAC’s ability to obtain specific client business mandates. Among other matters, it
was agreed that the Client Referral Program would be used to prioritize referral requests that
JPMorgan-APAC received from “decision-makers” or those who had the ability to influence an
upcoming banking mandate, preferably in the near term. Thus, for example, on or about
September 22, 2009, a JPMorgan-APAC executive who was responsible for supervising Client
Referral Program hires (“JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2”) wrote in an e-mail that he wanted to
revisit the Client Referral Program “to plan [for] better . . . deal conversion or revenue attribution
and relationship.”

21. Referred candidates hired under the revamped Client Referral Program typically
were less qualified for the position of associate, analyst, or summer intern when compared with
the regular pool of such candidates hired through JPMorgan-APAC’s standard hiring programs.
Referred candidates who met JPMorgan-APAC’s hiring standards typically were directed to
apply for jobs through the normal hiring channels. Referred candidates who did not meet

JPMorgan-APAC’s hiring criteria for its standard hiring programs were hired through the Client

Referral Program. Despite the fact that the Client Referral Program hires typically lacked the

A-7
record of academic achievement and finance background that JPMorgan required under its
standard hiring programs, Compliance Questionnaires submitted for Client Referral Program
hires routinely stated that the Client Referral Program candidates were as qualified as other
applicants for positions as associates, analysts, and summer interns.

22. In or about November 2009, a JPMorgan-APAC employee whose responsibilities
included supervising employees hired under the Client Referral Program prepared a presentation,
at the direction of JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2, that described how Client Referral Program
hiring was “designed to hire employees referred by [ ] key clients who may not meet [ ] regular
hiring standard[s],” and that the program “could be further improved to optimize
control/management and enhance contribution to business generation.”

23. Under the revamped Client Referral Program, the “selection criteria” included a
“[d]irectly attributable linkage to business opportunity.” The authority to sponsor referral hires
was further restricted to senior managing directors. The November 2009 presentation also stated
that the cost of the program would be “[f]ully allocated to the sponsor’s team as a marketing
expense.” In or about December 2010 and March 2011, to keep the Client Referral Program
focused on generating near term revenue, a JPMorgan-APAC employee, whose responsibilities
included supervising employees hired under the Client Referral Program, created and then
updated a spreadsheet that tracked hires to specific clients, while also tracking revenue
attributable to those hires. The spreadsheet included columns for each hire, the referring client,
the relationship of the candidate, and the amount of revenue generated attributable to the hire in
USS. dollars. One of the purposes of the spreadsheet was to track deals that resulted from the

hires and measure revenue associated with Client Referral Program hires.
24, As with the earlier ad hoc quid pro quo hires made prior to 2009, JPMorgan-
APAC continued to use the existing Compliance Questionnaire to obtain pre-clearance to hire
candidates selected under the revamped Client Referral Program. Both investment bankers and
support personnel routinely provided inaccurate, misleading, and untruthful answers to the
Compliance Questionnaire.

25. Referred candidates hired under the Client Referral Program were typically given
the same titles and paid the same amount as entry-level investment bankers, despite the fact that
many Client Referral Program hires performed ancillary work such as proof reading and
provided little real value to any deliverable product. On or about July 13, 2011, JPMorgan-
APAC Employee 2 sent an e-mail that asked the JPMorgan-APAC employee then overseeing the
management of junior-level employees whether “we get real IB [investment banking]
productivity from [the referral hire] or is she a photocopier[?]” The employee responded:
“Photocopier” and noted that full-time, regular hires referred to these special hires as
“contractors” — peripheral.”

26. Client Referral Program hires were also given special treatment in certain
instances. For example, on or about April 28, 2011, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2 requested
that a Client Referral Program hire be shifted into a permanent position but noted an issue given
the referral’s “undeniable underperformance.” Nevertheless, the hiring was permitted on the
grounds that the “deal is large enough [and] we are pregnant enough with this person, that we’d
be crazy not to accommodate her father’s wants.”

27. | JPMorgan-APAC, through its employees or agents, took acts in furtherance of the
corrupt scheme while in the territory of the United States, including sending e-mails while in the

United States in furtherance of hiring the referred candidates in order to assist in obtaining and
retaining business, and placing certain of the referred candidates in New York in order to assist
in obtaining and retaining business. A banker who was based in New York and who reported
into JPMorgan-APAC (the “New York Banker”) was directly responsible together with
JPMorgan-APAC bankers for placing at least two of the referred candidates in New York, and
JPMorgan ultimately profited from the illegal scheme.

Examples of JPMorgan-APAC Quid Pro Quo Hiring

JPMorgan-APAC’s Use of the Referral Program to Secure Business from Client 1

28. In or around 2007, a senior official from Client 1 referred another senior official’s
son to a JPMorgan-APAC investment banker in Hong Kong. On or about November 15, 2007, a
JPMorgan executive sent an e-mail to an employee in the JPMorgan Human Resources
Department for the APAC region, copying a JPMorgan-APAC executive, asking if prior to
hiring this candidate they had “validate[d] this kid’s parental status.” On or about the same date,
the JPMorgan-APAC executive responded in an e-mail that the referral was “[c]onfirmed as son
of [] mayor” and “[c]lose to [Client 1] ceo.”

29. In or about December 2007, JPMorgan-APAC Human Resources and Legal and
Compliance employees received responses to the Compliance Questionnaire for this referral.
The JPMorgan-APAC banker who completed the form initially disclosed that there was an
“expected benefit” to JPMorgan by hiring the job applicant, writing, among other things, “[t]he
hiring of this candidate will place JPMorgan in a more favorable position for securing future
business from the client.” Shortly thereafter, a JPMorgan-APAC employee changed the response
to this question to read: “The candidate will be trained by JPMorgan for couple of years and then
go to local bank. Thus, will bring more business[].” Rather than rejecting the hire, Human

Resources and Compliance instead instructed the JPMorgan-APAC employee to remove the

A-10
offending language, writing, “[h]iring of the candidate should not be for the purposes of securing
future business of the firm. Please remove.”

30. The following week, a JPMorgan-APAC employee changed the Compliance
Questionnaire answer to read: “1. Maintain long term good relationship with the client. 2. If the
candidate can work out within the firm and demonstrates his capability that will be a win-win
situation for JPMorgan, particularly from finding a capable employee point of view.” On or
about March 10, 2008, the candidate started work at JPMorgan-APAC.

31. Thereafter, in or about mid-2008, JPMorgan-APAC became the exclusive
financial advisor to Client 1 on a transaction yielding profits to the Company of approximately
$4.82 million.

JPMorgan-APAC’s Use of Referral Hiring to Secure Business from Client 2

32.  Onor about May 29, 2008, a JPMorgan-APAC investment banker received a
referral hiring request from a senior executive of Client 2. At the time of the referral, JPMorgan-
APAC was actively pitching to be a “joint bookrunner” (i.e., a lead underwriter in a securities
issuance) in the initial public offering (“IPO”) for Client 2.

33.  Onor about July 1, 2008, the sponsoring banker who received the hiring request
wrote an e-mail to the JPMorgan-APAC banker responsible for overseeing hiring under the
Client Referral Program to inquire whether the referral candidate had been hired. The banker
sought guidance about whether it was worth hiring the person, since the IPO had been
postponed. A JPMorgan-APAC executive responded: “I am supportive of bringing her on board
given what’s at stake... . A couple of points . . . to discuss and agree prior to any offer being
made to her: how do you get the best quid pro quo from the relationship upon confirmation of the

offer?”

A-11
34,  Onor about the same date, the sponsoring banker responded to the e-mail,
copying three other JPMorgan-APAC executives, stating, “The client has communicated clearly
the quid pro quo on this hire and the team should start working on the [upcoming] IPO asap.”
JPMorgan-APAC was selected along with another investment bank as a bookrunner on the IPO.
The internal Compliance Questionnaire did not include the information concerning the quid pro
quo arrangement with Client 2, and in response to the question “What is the expected benefit to
JPMorgan in employing the candidate,” the answer provided was “[n]o expected benefit” from
the hire.

JPMorgan-APAC’s Use of Referral Hiring to Secure Business from Client 3

35. In or about February 2009, JPMorgan-APAC received a request to hire the son of
the Vice-Chairman of Client 3, who also held a senior position at another JPMorgan-APAC
client. On or about February 16, 2009, the sponsoring JPMorgan-APAC banker sent an e-mail to
a JPMorgan-APAC executive and other investment bankers noting that both entities “are very
important JPM clients” and that “we are in active discussion with [Client 3] on a potential equity
raising.”

36. On or about February 17, 2009, the JPMorgan-APAC banker responsible for
overseeing junior-level employee staffing sent an e-mail to JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2
seeking approval for the son’s hire, noting that “[t]here seem to be strong business reasons for
this referral hire and he is also a Wharton, but not very impressive, poor GPA.” On the same
day, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2 responded, “I know how important this relationship is and
yes I support its being processed now.”

37. JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2 kept the Vice-Chairman of Client 3 informed of

the son’s status. On or about February 17, 2009, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2 e-mailed a

A-12
colleague: “I will be seeing the candidate’s father next week .. . and I can relay the good news to
him in person . . . lets get internal approvals underway.” Within several weeks, the son was
made an offer and then began working at JPMorgan-APAC in or about July 2009.

38. On or about July 23, 2009, a banker who supervised the work of the son described
the son’s performance as not satisfactory:

Clearly, I think [the referral] has attitude issue. Every research
analyst / assistant and intern . . . comes to office for morning
meeting-morning meeting participation is compulsory for entire
research department globally. We have told [the son] to attend but
apparently he doesn’t seem to care. ... In this case, I think he can
stay in other department and doesn’t need to “sit” in research for
the sake of it. If having [the son] sit in every department for 2
weeks is a business need to maintain relations with [Client 3], I can
understand and am happy to accommodate. But next time, we
really don’t need to have an intern doing nothing and not following
very basic rule.

39. In spite of the son’s performance issues, JPMorgan-APAC continued to employ
him and to accommodate additional demands concerning him described below. On or about
August 27, 2010, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2 wrote an e-mail to another JPMorgan-APAC
banker, which read, in part: “So we picked up a new mandate in [our office] today — all we have
to do is get [the son] a full time analyst job at JPM in NY. Mission impossible?” On or about
the same date, the JPMorgan-APAC banker responded by referencing the difficulties given the
son’s performance: “Can try .. . his napping habit will be an eye-opening experience for our NY
colleagues if he gets a job. Does it have to be [investment banking]? He’s not really built for it.”

40. On or about September 3, 2010, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 2 sent an e-mail to
several JPMorgan investment bankers stating:

We have a very good client in Taiwan who has asked that we find
an IB analyst role for his son in NY. ... We are being offered now

a sellside on a 800mm [transaction] and the quid pro quo, is an
analyst IB job for his son.
41. Onor about October 29, 2010, the son of the Vice-Chairman of Client 3 was
offered a full-time position as an analyst at JPMorgan in New York. A JPMorgan banker noted
in an October 29, 2010 e-mail sent to a JPMorgan-APAC banker based in Asia and other
JPMorgan bankers that because of the job offer the son was a “happy young man! And his dad
will also be very pleased.”

42. Onor about January 27, 2011, JPMorgan received a mandate for an equity
offering from Client 3. On or about the same date, a high-level JPMorgan executive sent an e-
mail to another high-level executive, stating, “[Vice Chairman of Client 3] certainly followed
through on his unspoken promises. We must make absolutely sure we keep a close eye on his
son whom I continue to mentor on a regular basis.” The JPMorgan executive then sent an e-mail
to a JPMorgan-APAC banker stating, “This win is really down to you. We would never have got
a chance without your help and guidance and your relationships.”

JPMorgan-APAC’s Use of Referral Hiring to Secure Business Generally by
Hiring the Son of Chinese Official 1

43. | JPMorgan-APAC hired the son of Chinese Official 1, who was then a deputy
minister at a Chinese government agency. On or about July 21, 2006, a JPMorgan-APAC
investment banker attempted to place a candidate referred by Chinese Official 1 in an investment
banking position in JPMorgan’s New York office. Several days later, in describing the
importance of Chinese Official 1, the JPMorgan-APAC investment banker e-mailed a high-level

executive at JPMorgan describing the influence of Chinese Official 1:
Although he is now promoted to be a government official, his
influence remains strong both personally as well as in an official
capacity [at the Chinese Ministry] . . . [and] a good in[-]depth
relationship with the Ministry will pave the ground for us in many
large and important industries in China as well as large cap
companies, despite the fact some of them are ‘independent’
commercial entities, a unique feature of the Chinese/government
business alliance.

44, In or about December 2006, the son of Chinese Official 1 completed interviews
for a position in New York. A New York employee e-mailed a JPMorgan-APAC banker that the
referral “did very very poorly in interviews — some [managing directors] said he was the worst
BA [business analyst] candidate they had ever see[n] — and we obviously had to extend him an
offer . . . [o]bviously, we will need to accommodate due to client pressure, but we’re going to
have to handle this very carefully.”

45. In or about mid-2007, JPMorgan-APAC created a position in New York to place
the son into a one-year term position.

46. In May 2008, during the first year of the son’s work at JPMorgan in New York,
Chinese Official 1 requested that JPMorgan-APAC Employee 1 provide the son with another job
after his one-year term position expired. On or about June 8, 2008, JPMorgan-APAC Employee
1 sent an e-mail discussing the business case for finding the referral candidate another position,
which stated, in part:

The father indicated to me repeatedly that he is willing to go extra
miles to help JPM in whatever way we think he can. And I do
have a few cases where I think we can leverage the father’s
connection. . . . [G]iven the above, I’d like to discuss with you and
seek your advice/support on how to handle the son in NY and
leverage the father in China. Many thanks.
47. In or about July 2008, the New York Banker offered a position in his group to the

referral candidate. On or about August 11, 2008, the New York Banker informed JPMorgan-

A-15
APAC Employee 1: “I don’t have the details of the incident but apparently last Friday when I
was out of the office, [the referral] sent out an e-mail (which he inadvertently copied to an HR
person), where he made some inappropriate sexual remarks.”

48. After learning of the e-mail, various JPMorgan-APAC executives undertook to
keep Chinese Official 1’s son in the position. On or about August 12, 2008, the New York
Banker sent a follow up e-mail stating:

[T]here is general consensus among the seniors in our group as
well reports from people in his previous group that [the referral] is
immature, irresponsible and unreliable. [A banker in the]
European Clients Group with whom we share the analyst pool
where [the referral] sits, is no longer willing to have [the referral]
as part of the pool. That means that our Asia Group must take him
on exclusively and in addition to all else, there is also concern
about his reliability on confidentiality of client records/documents
which means that we may not be able to let him have access to
sensitive transactional records/documents.

49. The next day, the New York Banker e-mailed a colleague: “[A]s I suspected, we
will need to manage this situation in our group for which I will need your input/support.”
Despite the referral’s performance, he was kept on until his position was eliminated as part of a
reduction in force exercise ten months later.

JPMorgan-APAC’s Use of Referral Hiring to Secure a Major Hong Kong IPO

50. Beginning no later than in or about early 2009, Client 4 commenced the process
for an IPO. JPMorgan-APAC was actively competing with other investment banks for a lead
role on that IPO and had been informally pitching for such a role since 2007. When Client 4
went public in 2010, the IPO raised billions of dollars.

51. As part of pitching for a role in the Client 4 IPO, JPMorgan-APAC identified

several key decision-makers at Client 4 who were understood to have significant influence over

A-16
awarding roles in the IPO to the competing investment banks. One of these key decision-makers
was Chinese Official 2.

52. On or about November 13, 2009, several months before JPMorgan-APAC
submitted a formal proposal for the IPO, Chinese Official 2 e-mailed a letter to a JPMorgan-
APAC Employee | and attached the resume of a referred candidate. This referred candidate
wanted a position in JPMorgan’s New York office. In e-mails, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 1
repeatedly described the referred candidate as Chinese Official 2’s nephew, although in reality
there was no blood relation between the referred candidate and Chinese Official 2. The referred
candidate’s father was an executive at a Chinese state-owned energy company, from which
JPMorgan-APAC was also seeking business.

53. In or about late 2009, Chinese Official 2 communicated to JPMorgan-APAC
Employee | that hiring the referred candidate would significantly influence the role JPMorgan-
APAC would receive in Client 4’s upcoming IPO. JPMorgan-APAC Employee 1 communicated
this message to several senior colleagues, who understood that JPMorgan-APAC would receive a
more significant and lucrative role in the IPO if JPMorgan-APAC hired the candidate referred by
Chinese Official 2, and would risk losing the mandate if it did not make the hire.

54. On or about December 4, 2009, a JPMorgan-APAC executive e-mailed a
colleague, who had received the November 12 letter from Chinese Official 2: “Spoke[n] with a
few people who know [the referred candidate]. Unlikely to pass th{ro]ugh regular process.”
Indeed, in subsequent months, as the candidate referred by Chinese Official 2 pursued various
jobs at JPMorgan, it became clear that he was not qualified for an investment banking job at

JPMorgan. On or about December 9, 2009, one recruiter, for example, stated in an e-mail that
“[rJelative to other candidates, [the referral candidate’s] technological and quantitative skills
were light (this is an extremely quantitative position).”

55. | Onor about December 16, 2009, a JPMorgan-APAC banker e-mailed the New
York Banker. The JPMorgan-APAC banker asked for assistance with hiring the referred
candidate and stated that JPMorgan-APAC would “agree to fund [the referral] if necessary.”
Thereafter, the New York Banker arranged for multiple interviews for positions in New York for
the candidate referred by Chinese Official 2.

56. In or about December 2009 and January 2010, JPMorgan-APAC executives
received multiple inquiries and repeated pressure from Chinese Official 2 and another official to
hire the candidate referred by Chinese Official 2. On or about December 22, 2009, JPMorgan-
APAC Employee | e-mailed the New York Banker to offer his appreciation for the New York
Banker’s assistance and stated that the candidate’s “father and his uncle have separately
approached so many different people at J.P. Morgan.”

57. On or about December 28, 2009, Chinese Official 2 sent a follow up e-mail to
JPMorgan-APAC Employee | pushing for the hire of the referred candidate. On or about
January 14, 2010, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 1 e-mailed his supervisor referring to a letter
from “[Chinese Official 2] at [Client 4] pushing for a NY-based job position for his nephew.”
JPMorgan-APAC Employee | stated that:

[T]o avoid any “complication”, [Chinese Official 2] has asked to
keep this confidential and particularly away from the ‘[Client 4]
pitch team’ But I have kept [a senior banker on the pitch team] in
the loop ... Would be great if you could give this a push in NY
[Financial Institutions Group].

58. Ina separate e-mail sent on or about January 14, 2010, JPMorgan-APAC

Employee | forwarded the December 28th e-mail from Chinese Official 2 and stated: “Another

A-18
letter from [Chinese Official 2] pushing for the same candidate. In between there have been
several phone calls and sms from him.” JPMorgan-APAC Employee | later e-mailed the New
York Banker and told him, “I spoke with [the supervisor] last week about [the referred
candidate] after his meeting with [Chinese Official 2]... . He agreed to take this case to [another
high-level banker] in NY himself. FYI only.”
59. By the end of January 2010, JPMorgan-APAC employees attempting to find a job

for the candidate referred by Chinese Official 2 had been unsuccessful. On or about January 21,
2010, a New York-based JPMorgan employee who had interviewed the referred candidate
reported that the candidate’s “communication skills and his interest in Investment Banking
lagged that of his peers .... Based on the feedback, the FIG [Financial Institutions Group] New
York team is not comfortable moving forward with an offer.” After receiving pushback from the
New York Banker to reconsider, the interviewer wrote:

[T]he recruitment process for our analyst program in the

Investment Bank is highly competitive. I have personally

interviewed and interacted with dozens of highly talented analyst

candidates that have had a more well-rounded skill-set than [the

referred candidate] that we’ve also chosen not to pursue... . In

summary, [the referred candidate’s] current skill-set falls short in

some of the categories I mentioned above and I would recommend

he pursue a different career track

60. On or about January 22, 2010, the New York Banker received a follow up e-mail

from a human-resources employee recommending that he “be honest with the individual (and the
client) and let him know that we don’t want to place him in a situation where it will be difficult
to succeed and advise (and help) him pursue other opportunities that might be better ‘fits’ for his
skill set and will provide a better opportunity to be successful.”

61. The New York Banker did not deliver this message to the referred candidate or

Chinese Official 2. Instead, JPMorgan-APAC bankers created a position for the referred

A-19
candidate in the New York office funded out of JPMorgan-APAC’s budget. On or about
February 2, 2010, a JPMorgan-APAC banker leading the pitch for Client 4’s IPO e-mailed three
senior colleagues about the referral candidate:

[W]e have now reached consensus among us to offer [the referred

candidate] a one year fixed term position at [the New York

Banker’s] team in our new york office. We understand that you

have been always supportive of this hire. it is time to ask your

approval to proceed on that basis. [Chinese Official 2] called and

sent sms to [JPMorgan-APAC Employee 1] and me several times

to ask the status. If we can get this hire done soon, that will be

very helpful.

62. On or about February 10, 2010, the firm hired the candidate referred by Chinese
Official 2 and attributed the headcount to JPMorgan-APAC; no Compliance Questionnaire was
submitted for this hire to Legal and Compliance.

63. Thereafter, in the second quarter of 2010, JPMorgan-APAC was selected as a
joint bookrunner for Client 4’s IPO. On or about June 7, 2010, JPMorgan-APAC Employee |
sent an e-mail to the New York Banker: “I understand from his father that [the referred hire] will
start today in office. His uncle [Chinese Official 2] did deliver [the Client 4] IPO and his father
is helping us on a [different] ipo.”

64. In or about mid-2010, a senior official at Client 4 informed a banker at one of
JPMorgan-APAC’s competitors that the selection criteria for investment banks to underwrite the
Client 4 IPO had included whether the investment bank had hired candidates referred by Client 4
officials.

65. | Onor about November 9, 2010, JPMorgan-APAC Employee | wrote in an e-mail

to several JPMorgan-APAC executives that “[the referred hire] has been extremely helpful in our

relationship with [Client 4].”

A-20
66. Onor about January 26, 2011, JPMorgan-APAC Employee 1| wrote to a
JPMorgan-APAC executive about the referred hire: “[t]his is the young analyst you met briefly
...- He (and his family) has been instrumental in helping us on both the [Client 4] IPO and [an
energy company] IPO. His father is also helping us on [other energy companies] at the moment
as well.”

67.  JPMorgan-APAC received profits of at least $23.8 million as a result of the

Client 4 IPO.

A-21
ATTACHMENT B
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

In order to address any deficiencies in its internal controls, compliance codes, policies,
and procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), 15
U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, et seq., and other applicable anti-corruption laws, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(“JPMC”), on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries and affiliates, agrees to continue to conduct, in
a manner consistent with all of its obligations under this Agreement, appropriate reviews of its
existing internal controls, policies, and procedures.

Where necessary and appropriate, JPMC agrees to adopt new or to modify existing
internal controls, compliance codes, policies, and procedures in order to ensure that it maintains:
(a) a system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure that JPMC makes and keeps fair
and accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-corruption compliance
program that includes policies and procedures designed to detect and deter violations of the
FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. At a minimum, this should include, but not be
limited to, the following elements to the extent they are not already part of JPMC’s existing
internal controls, compliance codes, policies, and procedures:

High-Level Commitment
1. JPMC will ensure that its directors and senior management provide strong,
explicit, and visible support and commitment to its corporate policies against violations of the
FCPA and other applicable foreign law counterparts (collectively, the “anti-corruption laws”)

and its compliance code.

B-1
Policies and Procedures

2. JPMC will develop and promulgate a clearly articulated and visible corporate
policy against violations of the anti-corruption laws, which policy shall be memorialized in a
written compliance code or codes.

3. JPMC will develop and promulgate compliance policies and procedures designed
to reduce the prospect of violations of the anti-corruption laws and JPMC’s compliance code,
and JPMC will take appropriate measures to encourage and support the observance of ethics and
compliance policies and procedures against violation of the anti-corruption laws by personnel at
all levels of JPMC. These anti-corruption policies and procedures shall apply to all directors,
officers, and employees and, where necessary and appropriate, outside parties acting on behalf of
JPMC in a foreign jurisdiction, including but not limited to, agents and intermediaries,
consultants, representatives, distributors, teaming partners, contractors and suppliers, consortia,
and joint venture partners (collectively, “agents and business partners”). JPMC shall notify all
employees that compliance with the policies and procedures is the duty of individuals at all

levels of JPMC. Such policies and procedures shall address:

a) hiring;
b) gifts;
c) hospitality, entertainment, and expenses;
d) customer travel;
e) political contributions;
f) charitable donations and sponsorships;
g) facilitation payments; and
h) solicitation and extortion.
4. JPMC will ensure that it has a system of financial and accounting procedures,

including a system of internal controls, reasonably designed to ensure the maintenance of fair
and accurate books, records, and accounts. This system should be designed to provide

reasonable assurances that:

B-2
a) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or
specific authorization;

b) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;

c) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management’s
general or specific authorization; and

d) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets
at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

Periodic Risk-Based Review

§. JPMC will develop these compliance policies and procedures on the basis of a
periodic risk assessment addressing the individual circumstances of JPMC, in particular the
foreign bribery risks facing JPMC, including, but not limited to, its geographical organization,
interactions with various types and levels of government officials, industrial sectors of operation,
involvement in joint venture arrangements, importance of licenses and permits in JBMC’s
operations, degree of governmental oversight and inspection, and volume and importance of
goods and personnel clearing through customs and immigration.

6. JPMC shall review its anti-corruption compliance policies and procedures no less
than annually and update them as appropriate to ensure its continued effectiveness, taking into
account relevant developments in the field and evolving international and industry standards.

Proper Oversight and Independence

he JPMC will assign responsibility to one or more senior corporate executives of
JPMC for the implementation and oversight of JPMC’s anti-corruption compliance codes,
policies, and procedures. Such corporate official(s) shall have the authority to report directly to

B-3
independent monitoring bodies, including internal audit, JPMC’s Board of Directors, or any

appropriate committee of the Board of Directors, and shall have an adequate level of autonomy

from management as well as sufficient resources and authority to maintain such autonomy.
Training and Guidance

8. JPMC will implement mechanisms designed to ensure that its anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures are effectively communicated to all directors, officers,
employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners. These
mechanisms shall include: (a) periodic training for all directors and officers, all employees in
positions of leadership or trust, positions that require such training (e.g., internal audit, sales,
legal, compliance, finance), or positions that otherwise pose a corruption risk to JPMC, and,
where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners; and (b) corresponding
certifications by all such directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners, certifying
compliance with the training requirements.

9. JPMC will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
providing guidance and advice to directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and
appropriate, agents and business partners, on complying with JPMC’s anti-corruption
compliance codes, policies, and procedures, including when they need advice on an urgent basis
or in any foreign jurisdiction in which JPMC operates.

Internal Reporting and Investigation

10. JPMC will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for internal
and, where possible, confidential reporting by, and protection of, directors, officers, employees,
and, where appropriate, agents and business partners concerning violations of the anti-corruption

laws or JPMC’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures.

B-4
115 JPMC will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective and reliable
process with sufficient resources for responding to, investigating, and documenting allegations of
violations of the anti-corruption laws or JPMC’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and
procedures.

Enforcement and Discipline

12. JPMC will implement mechanisms designed to effectively enforce its compliance
codes, policies, and procedures, including appropriately incentivizing compliance and
disciplining violations.

13. JPMC will institute appropriate disciplinary procedures to address, among other
things, violations of the anti-corruption laws and JPMC’s anti-corruption compliance codes,
policies, and procedures by JPMC’s directors, officers, and employees. Such procedures should
be applied consistently and fairly, regardless of the position held by, or perceived importance of,
the director, officer, or employee. JPMC shall implement procedures to ensure that where
misconduct is discovered, reasonable steps are taken to remedy the harm resulting from such
misconduct, and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to prevent further similar misconduct,
including assessing the internal controls, compliance codes, policies, and procedures and making
modifications necessary to ensure that the overall anti-corruption compliance program is
effective.

Third-Party Relationships

14. | JPMC will institute appropriate risk-based due diligence and compliance
requirements pertaining to the retention and oversight of all agents and business partners,
including:

a) properly documented due diligence pertaining to the hiring and
appropriate and regular oversight of agents and business partners;

B-5
b) informing agents, distributors, and business partners of JPMC’s
commitment to abiding by anti-corruption laws, and of JPMC’s anti-corruption compliance code,
policies, and procedures; and

c) seeking a reciprocal commitment from agents and business partners.

15. Where necessary and appropriate, JPMC will include standard provisions in
agreements, contracts, and renewals thereof with all agents and business partners that are
reasonably calculated to prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws, which may, depending
upon the circumstances, include: (a) anti-corruption representations and undertakings relating to
compliance with the anti-corruption laws; (b) rights to conduct audits of the books and records of
the agent or business partner to ensure compliance with the foregoing; and (c) rights to terminate
an agent or business partner as a result of any breach of the anti-corruption laws, JPMC’s
compliance codes, policies, or procedures, or the representations and undertakings related to
such matters.

Mergers and Acquisitions

16. JPMC will develop and implement policies and procedures for mergers and
acquisitions requiring that JPMC conduct appropriate risk-based due diligence on potential new
business entities, including appropriate FCPA and anti-corruption due diligence by legal,
accounting, and compliance personnel.

17. JPMC will ensure that JPMC’s compliance code, policies, and procedures
regarding the anti-corruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to newly acquired businesses
or entities merged with JPMC and will promptly:

a) train the directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners
consistent with Paragraph 8 above on the anti-corruption laws and JPMC’s compliance code,
policies, and procedures regarding anti-corruption laws; and

B-6
b) where warranted, conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly acquired or
merged businesses as quickly as practicable.
Monitoring and Testing
18.  JPMC will conduct periodic reviews and testing of its anti-corruption compliance
code, policies, and procedures designed to evaluate and improve their effectiveness in preventing
and detecting violations of anti-corruption laws and JPMC’s anti-corruption code, policies, and
procedures, taking into account relevant developments in the field and evolving international and

industry standards.

B-7
ATTACHMENT C
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE REPORTING

JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMC”) and JPMorgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited
(“JPMorgan-APAC”) agree that they will collectively report to the Offices periodically, at no
less than twelve-month intervals during a three-year Term, regarding remediation and
implementation of the compliance program and internal controls, policies, and procedures
described in Attachment B (Corporate Compliance Program). Should JPMC or JPMorgan-
APAC discover credible evidence, not already reported to the Offices, concerning any corrupt
payments, false books, records, and accounts, or any matter relating to a failure to implement or
circumvention of internal accounting controls, JPMC shall promptly report such conduct to the
Offices. During this three-year period, JPMC and JPMorgan-APAC shall: (1) conduct an initial
review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare at least two (2) follow-up
reviews and reports, as described below:

a) By no later than one (1) year from the date this Agreement is executed, JPMC and
JPMorgan-APAC shall submit to the Offices a written report setting forth a complete description
of its remediation efforts to date, its proposals reasonably designed to improve their internal
controls, policies, and procedures for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and other applicable
anti-corruption laws, and the proposed scope of the subsequent reviews. The report shall be
transmitted to Chief, FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S. Department of Justice,
1400 New York Avenue, NW, Bond Building, Eleventh Floor, Washington, DC 20530 and
Chief, Business and Securities Fraud Section, United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern
District of New York, 271 Cadman Plaza East, Brooklyn, NY 11201. JPMC may extend the

time period for issuance of the report with prior written approval of the Offices.
b) JPMC and JPMorgan-APAC shall undertake at least two (2) follow-up reviews,
incorporating the Offices’ views on the prior reviews and reports, to further monitor and assess
whether JPMC and JPMorgan-APAC’s policies and procedures are reasonably designed to detect
and prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws.

c) The first follow-up review and report shall be completed by no later than one (1)
year after the initial review. The second follow-up review and report shall be completed by no
later than one (1) year after the completion of the preceding follow-up review. The final follow-
up review and report shall be completed and delivered to the Offices no later than thirty (30)
days before the end of the Term.

d) The reports will likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive
business information. Moreover, public disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation,
impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the objectives of the
reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the contents thereof are
intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except as otherwise agreed to by the parties in
writing, or except to the extent that the Offices determine in their sole discretion that disclosure
would be in furtherance of the Offices’ discharge of their duties and responsibilities or is
otherwise required by law.

3) JPMC and JPMorgan-APAC may extend the time period for submission of any of

the follow-up reports with prior written approval of the Offices.

C2
