UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, :

100 F Street, NE
Washington, D.C. 20549 Case: 1:10-cv-01319

Plaintiff | Assigned To : Urbina, Ricardo M.

a Assign. Date : 8/6/2010
Description: General Civil
Vv.

ALLIANCE ONE INTERNATIONAL, INC. | : COMPLAINT

Defendant.

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”), alleges:
SUMMARY

1. During the period from 1996 through 2004, Dimon, Incorporated (“Dimon”)
made multiple improper payments to foreign officials in Kyrgyzstan and Thailand in violation of
| the: Foreign Corrupt P Practices Act of 1977 cPGP ET) During the period from 2001 through
| 2004, Standard Commercial Corporation (“Standard”) made multiple i improper or paynients to |
foreign officials in Thailand in violation of the FCPA. In May 2005, Dimon and Standard
merged to form Alliance One International, Inc. (“Alliance One”).

2. From 1996 through 2004, Dimon International Kyrayzstan (“DIK”), a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Dimon, paid more than $3 million in bribes to Kyrgyzstan government
officials in order to purchase Keepy tobacco for resale to Dimon’s customers. These payments
were made to various government officials, including officials of the JSC GAK Kyrgyztamekisi
(“Tamekisi”) and local public officials (“Akims”). DIK also made improper payments to

Kyrgyzstan tax officials. Dimon’s Country Manager authorized, directed, and made these
improper payments in Kyrgyzstan through a DIK bank account held under his name (the

“Special Account”). Dimon’s Regional Financial Director authorized all fund transfers from a

Dimon subsidiary’s bank account to the Special Account. Dimon’s International Controller
formalized the accounting methodology used to record the payments made from the Special
Account for purposes of internal reporting by Dimon.

3. From 2000 to 2004, Dimon and Standard also paid bribes of more than $1.2
million to government officials of the Thailand Tobacco Monopoly (“TTM”) in order to obtain
more than $18.3 million in sales contracts. Dimon’s Senior Vice President of Sales directed the

‘sales of tobacco from Brazil and Malawi to the TTM through Dimon’s agent in Thailand. In |
connection with the sales, he authorized the payment of bribes to TTM officials and
characterized the payments as commissions paid to Dimon’s agent in Thailand. Similarly,
Standard’s personnel in Brazil and Europe directed the sales of tobacco from Brazil to the TTM
through Standard’s agents in Thailand. Standard personnel authonzed improper payments to
TTM officials and failed to accurately record those payments in Standard’s books and records,

“ 4... - By-at least May 2005, Standard provided gifts, travel, and entertainment expenses _
to foreign government officials in the Asian Region, including China and Thailand. In 2004,
Standard made a $50,000 payment to a political candidate who was also Standard’s agent for
tobacco sales in Thailand. | | x |

5 In April 2003, Dimon’s subsidiary in Greece made a payment of $96,000 to a
Greek tax olifieial in exchange for the tax official’s agreement not to a certain irregularities
discovered during an audit, thus significantly reducing Dimon Greece’s tax ability. Separately,

the controller of Dimon’s subsidiary in Indonesia made a $44,000 cash payment 6 an Indonesian

tax official in exchange for receiving a tax refund.
6. Despite their extensive international operations, Dimon and Standard lacked
sufficient internal controls desi gned to prevent or detect violations of the FCPA. During the
2000-2004 period, Dimon and Standard each had a policy manual prohibiting bribery, but the
training and guidance provided to their employees regarding compliance with the FCPA were
not adequate or effective. Dimon and Standard each also failed to establish a program to monitor
compliance with the FCPA by its employees, agents, and subsidiaries.

7. Dimon improperly recorded bribes and other improper payments in its books and
records as Selling, General, and Administrative expenses. Standard failed to make and keep
records that accurately reflected its transactions in Thailand and China, including its transactions
with the TTM.

8. By its conduct, defendant Alliance One violated the anti-bribery provision of the
FCPA, Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. §
78dd-1], by making or agreeing to make improper payments to foreign government officials in
_ order to obtain or retain business. Defendant Alliance One also violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A).

- and 13(6(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and- FBmo)\B)] by: failing |
to maintain an adequate internal control system to detect and prevent improper payments and by
improperly recording these payments in its books and records. Unless restrained and enjoined by |
the Court, defendant Alliance One will continue to engage in acts and practices that constitute, or —
will constitute, violations of these provisions.

| JURISDICTION AND VENUE

9. This Court has JURISHIEEON over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d), 21(e) and
27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 8§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa].

10. Venue in the District of Columbia is proper pursuant to Section 27 of the ©

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78aa].
11. Inconnection with the conduct described herein, Dimon and Standard, directly or
indirectly, made use of the mails or the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce in
connection with the acts, transactions, practices and courses of business alleged in this
Complaint.

| DEFENDANT

12. Alliance One is a Virginia corporation headquartered in Morrisville, North
Carolina. Alliance One’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: AOI).

| OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

13. Dimon was formed in 1995 through a merger. Dimon purchased and shipped
tobacco to manufacturers of ci garettes and other consumer tobacco products in approximately 90
countries around the world, including Kyrgyzstan, Greece, Indonesia, and Thailand. Dimon’s
common stock was registered with the Commission —, to Section 12(b) of the Exchange

Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: DMN).

14.” DIK was'a wholly-owiied subsidiary of Dimon, with its headquarters in Osh, ©

Kyrgyzstan. DIK was a tobacco procurement and sales center involved in the purchase and
fermentation of oriental tobacco.

15. Standard was founded in 1910 as a leaf tobacco merchant. The company
purchased and sold tobacco to customers in about 85 countries worldwide, including Thailand.
Standard’s cominon stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: STW).

16. Tamekisi is an entity established by the government of the Kyrgyz Republic
(Kyrgyzstan) to regulate the sale and export of Kyrgyz tobacco. The Tamekisi has had the

authority to issue and control licenses for the fermentation and export of tobacco.

4
17. TTMisa tobacco monopoly owned by the government of Thailand. The TTM
was formed in 1939 and, after the government enacted the Tobacco Act of 1943, became a state
tobacco monopoly.

FACTS
A. Payments To Kyrgyzstan Government Officials

18. In August 1994, Dimon began business operations in Osh, Kyrgyzstan, through
DIK.

19. On September 1, 1996, the Kyrgyzstan government imposed a requirement that
all exporters of fermented tobacco have an export license. The Tamekisi acted as the issuing
authority and controlled the issuance of export licenses, thus effectively controlling all tobacco
purchases in Kyrgyzstan. A high-ranking Tamekisi official had the authority to sign export
licenses. During this time, a Tamekisi official informed DIK that the export licensing
requirement would result in greater competition for DIK from other companies and that

“Tamekisi will share in any profit [Dimon] makes.”

20. “Under Presidential Order; the Tamekisi was responsible for-overseeing the °° = 5

fermentation of tobacco. The Tamekisi operated state-controlled tobacco fermentation plants
throughout Kyrgyzstan and prohibited private fermentation plants from operating in Kyrgyzstan.
21. On October 2, 1996, Dimon International Inc. (USA), Dimon’s wholly-owned
subsidiary, signed an agreement with the Tamekisi stating, among other things, “The cost of
services for tobacco fermentation at tobacco plants shall be set up in the amount of $0.18 U.S.
per kg. Apart from that, DIMON shall pay $0.05 U.S. per kg. on the settlement account of the
Kyrgyz party for financial assistance.” The payments for “financial assistance” were made by
Dimon’s Country Manager in cash to a high-ranking Tamekisi official and had no legitimate

business purpose.
22. | _Dimon’s Country Manager received periodic calls from a hi gh-ranking Tamekisi
official regarding the “financial assistance” payments and periodically delivered bags filled with
$100 bills to the high-ranking Tamekisi official at the Tamekisi’s office in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.
From 1996 to 2004, Dimon’s Country Manager paid more than $2.6 million to the high-ranking
Tamekisi official. |

| 23. | Dimon’s Country Manager also paid bribes to local government officials in
Kyrgyzstan known as Akims, who controlled the tobacco regions. DIK. needed the support and
consent of each Além in order to purchase tobacco from local growers or agricultural collectives.
Akims had the power and influence to prevent the purchase of tobacwo in their respective
regions, even if a company had an export license. Akims could also send the police to block the
entrance to buying stations or install a lock box to prevent the transfer of tobacco.

24. DIK paid Akims approximately $0.01 per kilogram of tobacco it purchased from
growers in each province. From 1996 to 2004, Dimon’s Country Manager authorized and paid

more than $260,000 to the Akims. _

vie 25.0% Dimon’s Country Manager authorized; directed; ‘and paid thé bribes iGo OE ES

government officials in Kyrgyzstan through a DIK bank account held under his name called the
‘Special Account. The Special Account was funded by wire transfers from another Dimon
_ subsidiary. These wire transfers were authorized by Dimon’s Regional Financial Director. |
-Dimon’s International Controller formalized the accounting methodology used to record the
improper payments made from the Special Account. Specifically, Dimon recorded these
payments as tobacco inventory in DIK’s balance sheet. As DIK’s tobacco was sold, the cost of
that tobacco and the capitalized expenditures from the Special Account were removed from

inventory and charged to DIK’s cost of goods sold through an amortization process. DIK’s cost
of goods sold was incorporated in Dimon’s consolidated financial statements as cost of goods
sold.
B. Payments to Government Officials Of Thailand

26. From 2000 to 2003, Dimon, and from 2001 to 2004, Standard colluded with
another competitor to pay bribes of mee than $1.2 million to government officials of the TTM
in exchange for obtaining more.than $18.3 million in sales contracts. These sales were made
through Dinan and Standard’s subsidiaries in Brazil, Dimon do Brasil Tabacos Ltda. and
Standard Brazil Limited, respectively. Dimon falsely recorded these payments as commissions
in its books and records, and Standard failed to accurately record these payments in its books and
records.

27.  Dimon’s sales of tobacco from Brazil and Malawi to the TTM were directed and
coordinated by Dimon’s Senior Vice President of Sales in the United States and Dimon’s
personnel in Brazil. Standard’s sales of tobacco from Brazil to the TTM were directed and

coordinated by Standard’s personnel in Brazil and Europe.

"28. A portion of Dimon and Standard’s selling price to the TTM was designatéd on'a*

per kilogram basis as “special expenses” or “special commissions,” which were kickbacks paid
through their agents to certain members of the TTM in exchange for the sales contracts. During
the period 2000 through 2003, Dimon made corrupt payments of approximately $542,590 to
TIM government officials. Similarly, from 2001 through 2004, Standard made corrupt
payments of $696,160 to TIM oeverument officials.
Cc. Books and Records and Internal Control Violations
Improper Payments to Tax Officials in Kyrgyzstan
29, DIK. was frequently subjected to audits by Kyrgyz tax officials. The tax

mspections generally lasted about seven weeks and DIK personnel devoted most of their work
| hours to responding to queries from the tax officials. Upon completion of one audit, the Kyrgyz
tax officials would begin performing yet another inspection. During the relevant time period, the
tax authorities reduced the tax penalties levied against DIK in exchange for cash payments.

From 1996 through 2004, Dimon through DIK paid approximately $82,850 to Kyrgyz tax
officials to reduce tax penalties. |

| Improper Gifts And Payments To Government Officials In China And Thailand

30. Between 2000 and 2003, Dimon arranged purported business trips that were
actually sightseeing trips arranged by Dimon and others for TTM officials.

St. By at least May 2005, Standard provided gifts, travel, and entertainment expenses
to government officials in the Asian Region. For example, im 2002 and 2003, contemporaneous
documents show that Standard empllipecs provided watches, cameras, laptop computers, and
other gifts to Chinese and Thailand tobacco officials. Standard also paid for dinner and
sightseeing expenses during non-business related travel to Alaska, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas
for Chinese and Thailand. government delegations.

32> “In December 2004, Standard paid $50,000 toa political candidate who was also |
Standard’s agent for sabaens sales in Thailand. The $50,000 payment was falsely revered in
Standard’s books as a payment for consulting work,
Improper Payments mn Tax Officials in Greece and Indonesia

33. During a routine internal audit of two Dimon subsidiaries in Greece in May and
June 2003, Dimon’s internal auditors inquired about certain rransections ina miscellaneous |
expense account. Disbursements from this account were labeled “special marketing expenses,”
and included a cash payment of $96,000 to a Greek tax official in April 2003 by the country
manager of Dimon Greece. The Greek tax official was conducting an audit of Dimon Greece at

the time of the payment.
34. The cash payment was made in exchange for the Greek tax official’s agreement
not to pursue over alleged irregularities discovered during the audit. As a result of the payment,
Dimon Greece’s tax payment was reduced from approximately 2.5 million Euros to
approximately 600,000 Euros. The payment to the Greek tax official was recorded in a
miscellaneous account as part of Dimon Greece’s Selling, General, and Administrative
Expenses, which was incorporated in Dimon’s consolidated financial statements.

35. In July 2004, Indonesian tax authorities initiated an audit of the 2003 tax return of
P.T. Mayangsari, Dimon’s Indonesian subsidiary. Dimon owned 75% of Mayangsari. According
to the tax return, Mayangsari was entitled to receive a refund of $630,375,745 Indonesian Rupiah
(about $68,000) in connection with the overpayment of income and value added taxes. During
the audit, one of the Indonesian supervising tax officials suggested to Mayangsari’s Controller
that Mayangsari resolve the audit by making a cash payment of 410,000,000 Rupiah (about
$44,000) to. the tax official. Mayangsari’s Controller agreed. In August 2004, Mayangsari’s

Controller made the cash payinent to the tax official in exchange for terminating the audit and
 oBtathing'a tax refand df 618°591,983 Rupiah (about $67,000)" -

36. In August 2004, Mayangsari’s Controller recorded the cash payment in
Mayangsari’s books and records as a purchase of tobacco and attributed to Mayangsari’s Selling, ~
General, and Administrative Expenses, which was incorporated in Dimon’s consolidated -
financial statements.

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act

37. Paragraphs | through 36 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.
38. Section 30A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act prohibits any issuer, or any officer,
director, employee, or agent of such issuer from making use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to
pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or
authorization of the giving of anything of value to any person, while knowing that all or a portion
of such money or thing of value will be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any |
foreign official for the purposes of influencing their acts or decisions in their official eamavity,
inducing them to-do or omit to do actions in violation of their lawful duties, securing any
improper advantage, or inducing such foreign officials to use their influence with a foreign
government or instrumentality thereof to affect or influence any act or decision of such
government or instrumentality in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business for
or with, or directing business to, any person.

39. By reason of the foregoing, defendant Alliance One violated, and unless enjoined

_ will continue to violate, the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA, as codified at Section 30A of
“the Exchange’Act [15 U8:C.'§ 78dd-1]° > a

SECOND CLAIM

 

Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act |
40. Paragraphs 1 through 36 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference. |
41. As detailed above, Alliance One failed to make and keep books, records, and
accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected Alliance One’s transactions
and the disposition of its assets.
42. By reason of the foregoing, Alliance One violated, and unless enjoined will

continue to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(A) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)] of the Exchange Act.

10
THIRD CLAIM
Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act

43. Paragraphs 1 through 36 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference. |

44. As detailed above, Alliance One failed to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances, among other things, that: (1)
transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
and (ii) transactions were recorded as necessary (1) to permit preparation of financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to
| such statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for its assets.

45. By reason of the foregoing, Alliance One violated, and unless enjoined will
continue to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(B) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)] of the Exchange Act.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment:

A. . Permanently restraining and enjoining Defendant Alliance One ftom violating

~~ “Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(6)(2)(B) of thé Exchange Act [15 U:S:C: §§78dd-1,. 3

78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)];
B. . Ordering Alliance One to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a result

‘of its illegal conduct; and

C. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

KKK

1]
Dated: August [yp , 2010

Respectfully Submitted,

buci MN:Whbame
Erica Y. Willfaais (Bar No. 464518)
Christopher R. Conte (Bar No. 419774)
Charles E. Cain
Christine E. Neal
Paul A. Gumagay (Bar No. 489813)

Attomeys for Plaintiff

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC 20549

~ (202) 551-4450 (Williams)

(202) 772-9246 (Williams)

12
