USAO02016R00596/CAH/NPG/DAL F | LL E D

4
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FEB I Z 2013
AT 8:30, AOL M
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY sacle tara
CLERK Dix—
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : Hon.

: Criminal No. 19- | Z© (cy

v.  18USC. § 371
: 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1
15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(2)(B}

GORDON J. COBURN and : 78m(b)(5), 78ffla), 78f£(c)(2)(A)
STEVEN SCHWARTZ : 18 U.S.C. § 2
INDICTMENT

The Grand Jury in and for the District of New Jersey, sitting at

Newark, charges:

COUNT ONE
(Conspiracy to Violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)

Relevant Individuals and Entities
i. At all times relevant to this Indictment:
a. Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation
(“Cognizant”) was an international corporation providing information
technology and consulting services. Cognizant was headquartered in Teaneck,
New Jersey, and incorporated in Delaware. Cognizant had more than 250,000
employees globally, more than half of whom worked in various locations in
India, including in and around the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Cognizant’s
shares were registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and

the company was required to file periodic reports with the SEC under Section
13 of the Securities Exchange Act. Accordingly, Cognizant was an “issuer”
within the meaning of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15,
United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).

b. Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited
(“Cognizant India”) was a wholly owned subsidiary of Cognizant. Cognizant
India and its employees were “agents” of an issuer within the meaning of the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a). Cognizant and
Cognizant India are hereinafter referred to collectively as “Cognizant.”

c. Defendant GORDON J. COBURN (“COBURN”) was the
President of Cognizant. Between in or about January 2007 and in or about
February 2012, COBURN served as Cognizant’s Chief Financial and Operating
Officer. As part of his responsibilities, COBURN oversaw Cognizant’s
acquisition and development of property in India, where Cognizant had
substantial operations. COBURN was a United States citizen and an officer,
employee, agent, and stockholder of an issuer within the meaning of the FCPA.

d. Defendant STEVEN SCHWARTZ (“SCHWARTZ”) was
the Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Corporate Affairs Officer of
Cognizant. SCHWARTZ was responsible for managing Cognizant’s global legal,
government affairs, and security teams. SCHWARTZ also was responsible for
overseeing and managing Cognizant’s compliance functions. SCHWARTZ was a
United States citizen and an officer, employee, agent, and stockholder of an

issuer within the meaning of the FCPA.
é. The “Construction Company” was a large engineering
and construction firm with an office in Chennai, India.

a “CC#1,” a co-conspirator not charged as a defendant
herein, resided in India and was the Vice President of Administration at
Cognizant. CC#1 was responsible for managing infrastructure and real estate
development on behalf of Cognizant in India. CC#1 reported to CC#2 and, in
many instances, directly to COBURN.

g. “CC#2,” a co-conspirator not charged as a defendant
herein, resided in India and was Cognizant’s Chief Operating Officer. CC#2
had direct oversight over CC#1 and reported directly to COBURN.

h. “CC#3,” a co-conspirator not charged as a defendant
herein, resided in India and was the Department Head for Commercial
Buildings at the Construction Company.

Overview of the Bribery Scheme

 

2. Between in or about January 2014 and in or about January
2016, COBURN, SCHWARTZ, and others engaged in a scheme to bribe one or
more government officials in India to secure and obtain a planning permit (the
“Planning Permit”) necessary for construction of an office campus in the state
of Tamil Nadu that would support approximately 17,000 Cognizant employees
and become one of Cognizant’s largest facilities in India (the “KITS Campus’).
The Indian government officials were “foreign officials” within the meaning of

the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f)(1).
3. In or about April 2014, COBURN and SCHWARTZ authorized
an unlawful payment of approximately $2 million to one or more foreign
government officials in India to secure and obtain the Planning Permit, which
was discretionary and non-routine. To conceal Cognizant’s involvement in the
scheme, COBURN, SCHWARTZ, CC#1, CC#2, and others agreed that the
Construction Company would obtain the Planning Permit by making the illegal
bribe payment and that Cognizant would reimburse the Construction Company
through construction invoices at the end of the KITS Campus project.

4. In or about late June 2014, after the co-conspirators had
agreed that the Construction Company would make the bribe payment on
behalf of Cognizant, the Construction Company secured the necessary
government order (the “Government Order”) for Cognizant to obtain the
Planning Permit, allowing Cognizant to complete the development of the KITS
Campus and avoid millions of dollars in costs. Months later, the co-
conspirators caused Cognizant to funnel over $2 million to the Construction
Company, disguised as payment for cost overruns on the KITS Campus, when
they knew that the actual purpose of the payment was to reimburse the
Construction Company for the bribe payment. As COBURN, SCHWARTZ and
others had previously agreed, they hid the bribe reimbursement payment
within a series of line items in a construction change order request to be paid
to the Construction Company, thereby concealing the true nature and purpose
of the reimbursement, falsifying Cognizant’s books and records, and

circumventing its internal controls.
Background

A. The Construction Company Begins Work on the KITS Campus

5. In or about November 2011, Cognizant retained the
Construction Company to develop the KITS Campus. Cognizant’s contract with
the Construction Company provided that the Construction Company would
obtain all statutory approvals and permits. The Construction Company was
permitted at the end of the project to seek from Cognizant reimbursement for
unanticipated costs associated with the agreed-upon scope of work through
“variation claims” or “change order requests.” COBURN was responsible for
approving Cognizant’s payment of such claims in excess of $500,000. CC#1
oversaw development of the KITS Campus on behalf of Cognizant, served as
one of Cognizant’s primary liaisons with the Construction Company, and
provided regular updates to COBURN.

6. The Planning Permit was a statutory approval that was
required prior to the commencement of construction of the KITS Campus.
Despite that requirement, it was common practice in India to apply for pre-
construction statutory approvals, such as the Planning Permit, after
construction began.

7. On or about February 7, 2013, approximately fourteen
months after beginning work on the KITS Campus, the Construction Company

submitted an application and fee for the Planning Permit.
B. Delays Prevent Cognizant from Obtaining the Planning Permit

8. In or about November 2013, approximately eight months
after the Construction Company submitted Cognizant’s Planning Permit
application, a local development authority (the “Development Authority”)
conditionally approved and forwarded the application to a separate agency for
consideration for the Government Order, a required step in obtaining the
Planning Permit.

9. By in or about mid-January 2014, the government agency
had not yet issued the Government Order. As a result, the Construction
Company proposed that members of Cognizant’s senior management meet with
certain high-level officials of the Tamil Nadu government to assist with securing
and obtaining the Planning Permit. Cognizant declined to meet with Tamil
Nadu officials concerning the Planning Permit application, maintaining instead
that it was the Construction Company’s responsibility to secure the necessary
approvals.

10. By in or about early March 2014, COBURN became aware
that the Construction Company had not obtained the Planning Permit due to
delays with the Government Order.

Cc. COBURN and SCHWARTZ Authorize a Bribe Payment to Secure
and Obtain the Planning Permit

11. Inor about late April 2014, COBURN and SCHWARTZ
authorized the payment of an approximately $2 million bribe to ensure that

Cognizant would receive the Planning Permit for the KITS Campus.
12. On or about April 21, 2014 and April 22, 2014, COBURN
and SCHWARTZ participated in two video conference calls with CC#1 and
CC#2. During the calls, CC#1 advised that the Construction Company had
received a bribe demand for approximately $2 million from one or more
government officials in India in connection with the Planning Permit
application for the KITS Campus.

13. COBURN, SCHWARTZ, CC#1, and CC#2 agreed during these
calls that the Construction Company would pay the bribe, and that Cognizant
would reimburse the Construction Company for the bribe payment. At CC#1’s
suggestion, COBURN, SCHWARTZ, CC#1 and CC#2 agreed that Cognizant
would reimburse the Construction Company for the bribe payment through a
change order request at the end of the project. SCHWARTZ agreed that CC#1’s
suggested approach was acceptable, but cautioned that the reimbursement
payment should not stand out in the change order request.

14. To increase the pressure on the Construction Company to
obtain the Planning Permit and to pay the bribe, COBURN directed CC#1 to
freeze and withhold all future payments to the Construction Company until it
had obtained all necessary permits for the KITS Campus and to notify the
Construction Company that its future business with Cognizant was in
jeopardy.

15. After receiving authorization for the bribe from COBURN and
SCHWARTZ, CC#1 advised the Construction Company that Cognizant would

withhold all future payments to the Construction Company until it secured the
necessary approvals, including the Planning Permit, for the KITS Campus. The
co-conspirators understood that the bribe demand had to be paid for Cognizant
to receive the Planning Permit. Several weeks later, the Construction Company
advised CC#1 that it would take the necessary steps to secure and obtain the
Planning Permit, and that it had hired a special third-party consultant to make
the bribe payment.

16. On or about May 17, 2014, CC#3 emailed CC#1, writing: “As
committed, we are going ahead with approval part (not to inform your site team
& others, except your top management if required so).” CC#3 also noted that
Cognizant had approximately $17 million in outstanding bills and asked for
CC#1’s assistance in getting Cognizant to pay those bills. CC#1 forwarded that
email to, among others, COBURN and CC#2. CC#1’s email stated that
Cognizant had “some positive traction” on the KITS Campus “approval process”
and that the Construction Company was “moving full swing on the process.”
CC#1 also wrote that the Construction Company had “appointed a new liaison
consultant to process the approval” and that the Construction Company “was
confident [Cognizant] will receive approval by this month end/early June.”
CC#1 noted that “the freeze on payment is hurting them very badly.” CC#1’s
email also stated that the total “on hold” payments were approximately $17
million and that CC#1 believed that it was a “good idea to release payment.”
COBURN responded, via email, “Suggest you pay 7mm and hold the balance

10m until they deliver.”
17. A few weeks later, COBURN sought an update on the
Planning Permit, but COBURN instructed the co-conspirators not to discuss
the matter over email. Thus, on or about June 16, 2014, CC#2 sent CC#1 an
email that read, “[COBURN] wanted an update on the [KITS Campus] approval
(no mails he said).”

D. Cognizant Obtains the Planning Permit

18. On or about June 30, 2014, CC#3 emailed a scanned copy of
the Government Order to CC#1 and others, writing: “As discussed, nobody
should know that [the Construction Company] has got this [Government
Order.] Request to maintain this confidentiality.” Later that day, CC#1 sent
the scanned Government Order, without CC#3’s note, to several Cognizant
executives, including COBURN, SCHWARTZ, and CC#2. In the email, CC#1
wrote, “We will now start firm planning for occupation. Thanks to [the
Construction Company] for support.”

19. Later that day, CC#1 asked COBURN to unfreeze the
remaining $10 million owed to the Construction Company. COBURN
instructed CC#1, via email, to “pay $5mm of the $10mm” but to “hold the other
$5mm until all approvals are finalized and received.”

20. Onor about November 5, 2014, the Development Authority
issued the Planning Permit to Cognizant. Five days later, on or about
November 10, 2014, CC#1 emailed COBURN, copying CC#2 and others, stating

that the Development Authority had issued the Planning Permit and
recommending that Cognizant release the remaining funds that Cognizant had
previously frozen. Two days later, COBURN responded, via email, “OK.”

21. By obtaining the Planning Permit, Cognizant was able to
complete construction of the KITS Campus, resulting in a significant business
advantage that allowed the company to avoid costly delays and related
expenses, including expenses associated with supporting thousands of India-
based employees in different facilities.

E. Cognizant Reimburses the Construction Company for the
Bribe Payment

22. Inor about late 2014, as the KITS Campus project neared
completion, the Construction Company began submitting change order
requests to Cognizant for reimbursement of unanticipated construction costs.
Specifically, the Construction Company submitted a list of approximately forty-
five claims totaling approximately $25 million.

23. Consistent with the plan agreed to by COBURN, SCHWARTZ,
CC#1 and CC#2 in April 2014, the Construction Company included in its
claims list an approximately $3.7 million claim for “approvals/campus
regularization,” which included an approximately $2.5 million request for
“statutory approvals — planning permit.” This request corresponded to the
amount the Construction Company demanded as reimbursement for the
approximately $2 million bribe payment and related expenses.

24. To disguise the reimbursement for the approximately $2
million bribe payment, CC#1 instructed a co-conspirator who was a member of

Cognizant’s real estate group to create a fake version of the claims list — one

10
that replaced the $3.7 million “approvals/campus regularization” request with
eleven previously-rejected claims worth roughly the same amount. This
substitution ensured that the Construction Company was made whole for the
bribe payment without having to document the true purpose of the
reimbursement.

25. Based on their communications with their co-conspirators,
COBURN and SCHWARTZ knew that the reimbursement for the bribe would be
and was included in the amount Cognizant agreed to pay the Construction
Company, and that the co-conspirators would and did falsify the change order
documents to conceal the payment. COBURN thereafter approved the
reimbursement to the Construction Company based on the false change order
request.

26. Based on COBURN’s approval, between in or around March
2015 and in or around January 2016, Cognizant issued several separate
payments to the Construction Company to cover the cost of the Construction
Company’s change order requests, including approximately $2.5 million for the

bribe reimbursement and related expenses.

11
The Conspiracy

27. From in or about January 2014 through in or about January

2016, in the District of New Jersey and elsewhere, the defendants,
GORDON J. COBURN
and
STEVEN SCHWARTZ,

did knowingly and willfully conspire and agree with others to commit offenses
against the United States, namely:

(a) being an officer, director, employee, and agent of an issuer, and
a stockholder thereof acting on behalf of such issuer, to willfully make use of
the mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the
payment of any money, offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of the
giving of anything of value to a foreign official and to a person, while knowing
that all or a portion of such money and thing of value would be and had been
offered, given, and promised to a foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing
acts and decisions of such foreign official in his or her official capacity; (ii)
inducing such foreign official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful
duty of such official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and (iv) inducing
such foreign official to use his or her influence with a foreign government and
agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and
decisions of such government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to
assist Cognizant in obtaining and retaining business, for and with, and

directing business to, Cognizant and others, to wit: COBURN and SCHWARTZ

i
authorized Cognizant and its agents to pay and cause to be paid an
approximately $2 million bribe to any person, while knowing that all or a
portion of such money or thing of value will be offered, given, or promised,
directly or indirectly, to any foreign official to secure and obtain a planning
permit required for Cognizant to construct a large office campus in India,
contrary to Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1 and 78ff(c)(2)(A);

(b) to knowingly and willfully, directly and indirectly, falsify and
cause to be falsified books, records, and accounts required to, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of Cognizant, an issuer organized under the laws of the United States,
and its assets, contrary to Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(A),
78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a); and

(c) to knowingly and willfully, directly and indirectly, circumvent
and cause to be circumvented, and fail to implement, a system of internal
accounting controls at Cognizant sufficient to provide reasonable assurances
that: (i) transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general
or specific authorization; (ii) transactions were recorded as necessary to (A)
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and (B) maintain accountability for assets; (ili) access to assets was
permitted only in accordance with management’s general or specific

authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets was compared

with the existing assets at reasonable intervals, and appropriate action was

13
taken with respect to any differences, contrary to Title 15, United States Code,
Sections 78m(b)(2)(B), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a).

Goal of the Conspiracy

 

28. The goal of the conspiracy was for COBURN, SCHWARTZ,
and their co-conspirators to illegally benefit Cognizant and themselves by
improperly securing and obtaining a required planning permit for the KITS
Campus by bribing one or more government officials in India; falsely recording
payments relating to the bribe on Cognizant’s books, records, and accounts;
and circumventing and failing to implement Cognizant’s internal accounting
controls.

Manner and Means of the Conspiracy

 

29. It was part of the conspiracy that:

a. COBURN, SCHWARTZ, CC#1, CC#2, and others
agreed to reimburse the Construction Company for the payment of an
approximately $2 million bribe to one or more government officials in India to
ensure that Cognizant would obtain the Planning Permit necessary to develop
the KITS Campus.

b. COBURN, SCHWARTZ, CC#1, CC#2, and others
agreed that Cognizant would reimburse the Construction Company for the
bribe payment through construction invoices, or change orders, at the end of
the KITS Campus project.

C. After the co-conspirators agreed that the Construction

Company would make the bribe payment on behalf of Cognizant, the

14
Construction Company obtained the Government Order, a necessary step in
securing the Planning Permit, and sent a copy of it to Cognizant.

d. The Construction Company sought reimbursement
from Cognizant for the bribe payment through a change order request.

é. CC#1 and others acting at CC#1’s direction altered the
Construction Company’s change order request to conceal the bribe payment
reimbursement.

f. Based on the agreement with SCHWARTZ and others
during the April 2014 calls referenced above, COBURN approved the final
change order request and authorized Cognizant to pay the Construction
Company approximately $2.5 million as reimbursement for the bribe payment
and related expenses.

g. To conceal Cognizant’s reimbursement for the bribe
payment, COBURN, SCHWARTZ, and others, falsified and caused to be falsified
Cognizant’s books, records, and accounts. For example:

1. COBURN, SCHWARTZ, and others approved and
caused the approval of false change order requests and related approvals in
connection with the KITS Campus.

il. COBURN, SCHWARTZ, and others, in
connection with the preparation of Cognizant’s SEC filings, made and caused
to be made false, fraudulent, and misleading representations and omissions in
Sarbanes-Oxley Quarterly Global 302 Certifications for the quarter ending

June 30, 2014 and the quarter ending March 31, 2015, including, but not

15
limited to, falsely certifying that Cognizant’s internal controls had been in force
and effective, and that they had disclosed to Cognizant’s Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer all known deficiencies in the operation of the
internal controls and any known fraud involving management or other
employees who had a significant role in Cognizant’s internal controls.

ili. COBURN, SCHWARTZ, and others, in
connection with the preparation of Cognizant’s filing of its annual report with
the SEC, made and caused to be made false, fraudulent, and misleading
representations and omissions in Annual Report on Form 10-K and Proxy
Statement Disclosure Questionnaires for the year ended December 31, 2014
and the year ended December 31, 2015, including, but not limited to, providing
false answers to questions relating to: bribes or kickbacks; disguised or
intentionally misrecorded entries in Cognizant’s books and records; and
transactions that may have violated Cognizant’s Code of Conduct.

h. To conceal Cognizant’s reimbursement for the bribe
payment, COBURN, SCHWARTZ, and others, circumvented and caused others
to circumvent, and failed to implement, Cognizant’s system of internal
accounting controls, including, but not limited to, controls relating to
payments and approvals for accounts payable, and controls relating to
Cognizant’s SEC filings, such as Sarbanes-Oxley Quarterly Global 302
Certifications and Annual Report on Form 10-K and Proxy Statement

Disclosure Questionnaires.

16
Overt Acts
30. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to achieve the unlawful

objects thereof, at least one of the co-conspirators committed and caused to be
committed, in the District of New Jersey and elsewhere, at least one of the
following overt acts, among others:

a. On or about April 21, 2014, COBURN, SCHWARTZ,
CC#1, and CC#2 participated in a video conference call relating to the illegal
agreement to pay a bribe to one or more foreign government officials in India.

b. On or about April 22, 2014, COBURN, SCHWARTZ,
CC#1, and CC#2 participated in a video conference call relating to the illegal
agreement to pay a bribe to one or more foreign government officials in India.

€, On or about April 22, 2014, COBURN directed CC#1 to
advise the Construction Company that Cognizant would withhold future
payments to the Construction Company until the Construction Company
secured all necessary government permits and approvals for the KITS Campus.

d. On or about June 30, 2014, CC#1 sent an email to
COBURN, SCHWARTZ, CC#2, and others attaching the Government Order the
Construction Company had obtained.

e, On or about January 13, 2015, CC#1 sent an email to
COBURN and others that included a chart summarizing the Construction
Company’s pending change order requests. The chart contained a line item for

statutory approvals.

17
f. On or about on February 3, 2015, COBURN responded
to CC#1’s January 13, 2015 email referenced in Paragraph 30(e), “Approved.”

g. On or about March 13, 2015, COBURN sent an email
to a member of Cognizant’s finance unit authorizing a payment to the
Construction Company that included reimbursement for the $2 million bribe
that the co-conspirators agreed the Construction Company would pay on
Cognizant’s behalf.

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.

18
COUNTS TWO THROUGH FOUR
(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)

 

1. Paragraphs 1 through 26 and 28 through 30 of Count One of
this Indictment are realleged and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein.

De On or about the dates set forth below, in the District of New
Jersey and elsewhere, the defendants,

GORDON J. COBURN

and

STEVEN SCHWARTZ,
each being an officer, director, employee, and agent of an issuer, and a
stockholder thereof acting on behalf of such issuer, did willfully use the mails
and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the
payment of money, offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of the giving of
anything of value to a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that all or
a portion of such money and thing of value would be and had been offered,
given, and promised to a foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts
and decisions of such foreign official in his or her official capacity; (ii) inducing
such foreign official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of
such official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and (iv) inducing such
foreign official to use his or her influence with a foreign government and
agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and

decisions of such government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to

assist Cognizant in obtaining and retaining business, for and with, and

19
directing business to, Cognizant and others, to wit: COBURN and SCHWARTZ

authorized Cognizant to pay and cause to be paid an approximately $2 million

bribe to any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing

of value will be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign

official to secure and obtain a planning permit required for Cognizant to

construct a large office campus in India, as follows:

 

 

MEANS AND INSTRUMENTALITIES OF
INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE

 

 

COBURN email to SCHWARTZ, CC#1, and CC#2
requesting a call the next morning to follow up from
their discussion in their April 21, 2014 call.

 

COBURN email to CC#1 and others instructing
CC#1 to continue to freeze certain payments to the
Construction Company.

 

 

 

COUNT | APPROXIMATE
DATE
Two April 21, 2014
Three May 20, 2014
Four March 13, 2015

 

COBURN email to CC#1 and others authorizing
Cognizant to pay the Construction Company for
certain false change order requests in connection
with the KITS Campus.

 

In violation of Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1 and

78ff(c)(2)(A), and Title 18, United States Code, Section 2.

20

 
|

COUNTS FIVE THROUGH ELEVEN
(False Books and Records)

 

Ls Paragraphs 1 through 26 and 28 through 30 of Count One of
this Indictment are realleged and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein.

Ze On or about the dates set forth below, in the District of New
Jersey and elsewhere, the defendants,

GORDON J. COBURN
and
STEVEN SCHWARTZ,
knowingly and willfully, directly and indirectly, falsified and caused to be
falsified books, records, and accounts required to, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of

Cognizant, an issuer of securities registered pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as set forth below:

21
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COUNT APPROXIMATE | DEFENDANT FALSIFIED RECORD
: DATE
Five March 11, 2015 | COBURN Spreadsheet and related approvals
containing and incorporating false
change order requests in connection
with the KITS Campus.
Six July 24, 2014 | COBURN Sarbanes-Oxley Quarterly Global 302
Certification for the Quarter Ended June
30, 2014.
Seven August 1, 2014 | SCHWARTZ Sarbanes-Oxley Quarterly Global 302
Certification for the Quarter Ended June
30, 2014.
Eight April 21,2015 | COBURN Sarbanes-Oxley Quarterly Global 302
Certification for the Quarter Ended
March 31, 2015.
Nine February 2, 2015 | SCHWARTZ Annual Report on Form 10-K and Proxy
Statement Disclosure Questionnaire for
the Year Ended December 31, 2014.
Ten February 9, 2015 | COBURN Annual Report on Form 10-K and Proxy
Statement Disclosure Questionnaire for
the Year Ended December 31, 2014.
Eleven February 6, 2016 | COBURN Annual Report on Form 10-K and Proxy

 

 

 

Statement Disclosure Questionnaire for
the Year Ended December 31, 2015.

 

In violation of Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(A),

78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a), and Title 18, United States Code, Section 2.

22

 
COUNT TWELVE
(Circumvention of Required Internal Accounting Controls)

1. Paragraphs 1 through 26 and 28 through 30 of Count One of
this Indictment are realleged and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein.

as From in or about January 2014 through in or about January
2016, in the District of New Jersey and elsewhere, the defendants,

GORDON J. COBURN

and

STEVEN SCHWARTZ,
knowingly and willfully, directly and indirectly, circumvented and caused to be
circumvented, and failed to implement, a system of internal accounting
controls of Cognizant, an issuer organized under the laws of the United States,
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (ii)
transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any
other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain accountability
for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with
management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded
accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable
intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences; to wit,
COBURN and SCHWARTZ circumvented and caused to be circumvented, and

failed to implement, Cognizant’s system of internal accounting controls,

including, but not limited to, controls relating to payments and approvals for

23
accounts payable, and controls relating to Cognizant’s SEC filings, such as
Sarbanes-Oxley Quarterly Global 302 Certifications and Annual Report on
Form 10-K and Proxy Statement Disclosure Questionnaires.

In violation of Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(B),

78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a), and Title 18, United States Code, Section 2.

A TRUE BILL

Grand Jury Foreperson

 

 

 

ty
CRAIG CARPENITD ROBERT ZINK
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY ACTING CHIEF

FRAUD SECTION
CRIMINAL DIVISION

24
CASE NUMBER: 19-

 

 

United States District Court
District of New Jersey

 

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vv.

GORDON J. COBURN and
STEVEN SCHWARTZ

 

 

INDICTMENT FOR

18 U.S.C. § 371
15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1

15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(2)(B), 78m(b)(5), 78ff[a), 78ff{(c)(2)(A)
18 U.S.C. § 2

 

 

A True Bill,

Foreperson

 

 

CRAIG CARPENITO
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

 

 

COURTNEY A. HOWARD
NICHOLAS P. GRIPPO
ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEYS
DAVID LAST
ASSISTANT CHIEF, FCPA UNIT

 

 
