U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
Three Lafayette Centre
1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, DC 20581
Telephone: (202) 418-5320
Facsimile: (202) 418-5523
www.cftc.gov

 

Division of
Enforcement

ENFORCEMENT ADVISORY

Advisory on Self Reporting and Cooperation for CEA Violations
Involving Foreign Corrupt Practices

 

The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) issues this Advisory to provide further guidance
regarding circumstances under the Division’s cooperation and self-reporting program in which it
may recommend a resolution with no civil monetary penalty.

On January 19, 2017, the Division of Enforcement issued two Enforcement Advisories
(the “January 2017 Advisories”) outlining the factors the Division would consider in evaluating
cooperation by individuals and companies in the Division’s investigations and enforcement
actions. On September 26, 2017, the Division issued an additional Enforcement Advisory (the
“September 2017 Advisory’) outlining the ways in which the Division would consider voluntary
disclosures by a company or individual in the context of its broader cooperation program. Among
other things, in the September 2017 Advisory, the Division explained that “[i]f the company or
individual self-reports, fully cooperates, and remediates, the Division will recommend the most
substantial reduction in the civil monetary penalty that otherwise would be applicable.” The
September 2017 Advisory further explained that, in certain circumstances, the Division may
recommend a resolution with no civil monetary penalty on account of voluntary disclosure,
cooperation, and remediation.

This Advisory applies to companies and individuals not registered (or required to be
registered) with the CFTC that timely and voluntarily disclose to the Division violations of the
Commodity Exchange Act involving foreign corrupt practices, where the voluntary disclosure is
followed by full cooperation and appropriate remediation, in accordance with the January 2017 and
September 2017 Advisories.’ In those circumstances, the Division will apply a presumption that it
will recommend to the Commission a resolution with no civil monetary penalty, absent aggravating
circumstances involving the nature of the offender or the seriousness of the offense. In its
evaluation of any aggravating circumstances, the Division will consider, among other things,
whether: executive or senior level management of the company was involved; the misconduct was
pervasive within the company; or the company or individual has previously engaged in similar
misconduct.

 

"CFTC registrants have existing, independent reporting obligations to the Commission requiring them, among other
things, to report any material noncompliance issues under the CEA, which would include any foreign corrupt
practices that violate the CEA. Nevertheless, registrants that timely and voluntarily self-report misconduct, fully
cooperate, and appropriately remediate will receive a recommended “substantial reduction in the civil monetary
penalty,” as set forth in the January 2017 and September 2017 Advisories, but the presumption of a recommendation
of no civil monetary penalty will not apply.
If the Division recommends a resolution without a civil monetary penalty pursuant to this
Advisory, the Division would still require payment of all disgorgement, forfeiture, and/or
restitution resulting from the misconduct at issue. In addition, the Division will seek all available
remedies—including, where appropriate, substantial civil monetary penalties—with respect to
companies or individuals implicated in the misconduct that were not involved in submitting the
voluntary disclosure.
