2020-BCFP-0001 Document’ Filed 04/01/2020 Page 1 of 29

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING

File No. 2020-BCFP-0001

 

In the Matter of: CONSENT ORDER

Cottonwood Financial Ltd., d/b/a Cash Store

 

 

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) has reviewed the installment
lending, payday lending, title lending, marketing, collections, and furnishing practices of
Cottonwood Financial Ltd., d/b/a Cash Store (Respondent, as defined below) and has identified
violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a),
5536(a)(1)(B); section 623 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.,
and its implementing regulation, Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. pt. 1022; and the Truth in Lending Act
(TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601-1666), and its implementing regulation, Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. pt.
1026. Under sections 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §8 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues
this Consent Order (Consent Order).

I
Jurisdiction

1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563 and

5565; the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2; and TILA, 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601-1666).
I
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order,”
dated March 16, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated by reference and is accepted by
the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent has consented to the issuance of this Consent
Order by the Bureau under sections 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563 and
5565. Respondent admits only those facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

Ill
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Affected Consumers” are the 1,228 consumers identified by the Bureau who
purchased installment loans using a discount code associated with Respondent’s
television advertisements between January 1, 2013 and June 1, 2015.

b. “Clearly and Prominently” means:

1. In textual communications (e.g., printed publications or words
displayed on the screen of an electronic device), the disclosure
must be of a type size and location sufficiently noticeable for an
ordinary consumer to read and comprehend it, in print that
contrasts with the background on which it appears;

il. In communications disseminated orally or through audible means
(e.g., radio or streaming audio), the disclosure must be delivered in
a volume and cadence sufficient for an ordinary consumer to hear

and comprehend it;
il. In communications disseminated through video means (e.g.,
television or streaming video), the disclosure must be in writing in
a form consistent with subsection (1), and must appear on the
screen for a duration sufficient for an ordinary consumer to read
and comprehend it; and

IV. In communications that contain both audio and visual portions, the

disclosure must be presented simultaneously in both the audio and
visual portions of the communication.
“Consumer Reporting Agency” or “CRA” refers to a Consumer Reporting
Agency as defined by 15 U.S.C. § 1681a(f), and means any person which, for
monetary fees, dues, or on a cooperative nonprofit basis, regularly engages in
whole or in part in the practice of assembling or evaluating consumer credit
information or other information on consumers for the purpose of furnishing
consumer reports to third parties, and which uses any means or facility of
interstate commerce for the purpose of preparing or furnishing consumer reports.
“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.
“Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the Southeast Region for the
Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or
her delegate.
“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of one or more
consumers or an enforcement action by another governmental agency brought
against Respondent based on substantially the same facts as described in Section

IV of this Consent Order.
g. “Relevant Period” includes the period from January 1, 2013 to December 4, 2015.
h. “Respondent” means Cottonwood Financial, Ltd., d/b/a/ Cash Store, and its
successors and assigns.
IV

Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

4.

Respondent is a financial services company headquartered in Irving, Texas.

Respondent owns and operates approximately 340 locations across the following states:
Idaho, Illinois, Michigan, New Mexico, Texas, Utah, and Wisconsin.

Respondent makes or, in certain states, assists consumers in obtaining, short-term, small-
dollar loans, including payday, installment, and auto title loans. Since at least 2013,
Respondent has offered multiple-payment loans in varying amounts, with installment
payments due periodically. Respondent also makes or, in certain states, assists consumers
in obtaining, loans secured by consumers’ vehicles and unsecured, short-term, single-
installment loans.

Respondent is a covered person under the CFPA because it is in the business of making
consumer loans and collecting debt related to such loans. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6), (15)(A)q),
(15)(A)(X).

Respondent is a creditor under TILA and Regulation Z to the extent that it regularly
extends consumer credit that is payable by agreement in more than four installments or
for which the payment of a finance charge is or may be required, and is the person to
whom the debt arising from the consumer credit transaction is initially payable on the
face of the evidence of indebtedness or, if there is no such evidence of indebtedness, by

agreement. 15 U.S.C. § 1602(g); 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(17).
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Respondent is a person under FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681a(b).

Respondent furnishes information relating to consumers to CRAs for inclusion in
consumer reports. Respondent is therefore a furnisher under Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. §
1022.41(c).

Findings and Conclusions as to Unfair Collection Call Practices

As part of its loan-application process, Respondent asked consumers to list their primary
telephone number and to provide the names and contact information for at least two
references.

As references, consumers often identified their employers, family, or friends, and listed
their employers’ telephone numbers, along with the telephone numbers of family or
friends.

When consumers failed to make payments on loans originated by Respondent, it
frequently made numerous calls to the consumers themselves, their employers, and other
third parties.

Respondent called some consumers more than 15 times daily, and a smaller portion more
than 20 times daily.

Until at least December 2015, Respondent routinely called consumers’ employers,
consumers’ other references, and other third parties as a tactic to obtain payments from
the consumer rather than when unable to locate the consumer.

In numerous instances when making such calls, Respondent disclosed to third parties, or
risked disclosing to third parties, the existence of consumers’ delinquent debts.

In some instances, Respondent called consumers’ workplaces multiple times a day, even
after being told that the consumers were not allowed to receive calls at work and that

future calls could endanger their employment.
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

In some instances, Respondent called consumers’ references or other third parties it
thought might be related to consumers even after being asked to stop.

Respondent’s acts or practices have caused or were likely to cause substantial injury to
the consumers from whom it sought to collect and to third parties. Respondent’s repeated
calls to consumers’ workplaces caused or were likely to cause consumers harm including
disciplinary action from employers, lost productivity and wages, and other negative
employment consequences.

Respondent’s high volume of calls to consumers also caused or was likely to cause harm
to consumers as the repeated calls aggravated, annoyed, and distressed consumers.
Respondent’s calling practices also caused or were likely to cause harm to persons who
acted as third-party references.

Consumers, including the third parties who Respondent contacted, could not reasonably
have avoided the harm because they did not know whether, when, or how these calls
might occur and had no control over Respondent’s use of these collection tactics.
Consumers had no way of knowing Respondent would engage in such conduct before
entering the loan transaction as Respondent does not disclose in its loan agreements that
it will use these collection tactics if a loan becomes delinquent.

The injury resulting from these calls is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to
consumers or competition. Many other means to collect debt that do not disrupt
consumers’ workplaces or otherwise harm consumers are available to Respondent. Any
marginal benefit to consumers or to competition stemming from additional recoveries by
Respondent is outweighed by substantial injury or likelihood of injury to consumers

resulting from these practices.
24.

25.

206.

27.

28.

29.

Respondent’s acts or practices therefore constitute unfair acts or practices in violation of
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Deceptive Television Marketing

Before June 2015, certain television advertising by Respondent stated that consumers
could save 50% on finance charges.

In fact, Respondent did not give consumers who responded to the advertisements a 50%
discount on all of the finance charges associated with the loan.

Instead, consumers would pay the first finance charge in full. Consumers would then
receive a 50% rebate of that charge, which was mailed to them some time later.
Consumers were required to pay 100% of the remaining finance charges and received no
rebates of those payments.

Certain of Respondent’s television advertisements ended with a screen displaying text
urging consumers to call Respondent and “Save 50%” in large font at the top of the
screen. Underneath, the screen included fine print text indicating that the promised
discount was available only as a rebate, and applied only to the finance charge for the first
scheduled payment. At the same time, the advertisements included voice-overs telling
viewers to call now and “save up to 50%,” or other substantially similar language, without
reference to the limitations on the purported discount.

Respondent’s representations in the advertisements were likely to mislead consumers
acting reasonably because they presented the false impression that consumers would only
have to pay 50% of a loan’s finance charges. In fact, consumers actually had to pay all of
the finance charges on these loans; the discount code provided them the opportunity to
receive a rebate after they made their first scheduled payment, and then only of 50% of

the finance charge portion of that payment.
30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

From January 1, 2013 to June 1, 2015, more than 1,200 consumers redeemed codes
related to Respondent’s misleading television ads.

The statements in these television advertisements were material because they related to
the cost of Respondent’s loan products.

Respondent’s representations set forth above constitute deceptive acts or practices in
violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536(a)(1)(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Deceptive Telemarketing Calls

From at least January 2013 through January 2015, Respondent made thousands of
marketing calls promoting its supposed 50% discounts after consumers expressed interest
in a loan online.

When Respondent’s telemarketers mentioned the discount, they typically described it as a
50% discount on the finance charge payment, and in most cases failed to mention the
limitations that it would apply only to finance charges applicable to the first payment due,
that it would be paid as a rebate, and that it would be provided only if the first payment
was received in full on or before the due date.

Respondent’s telemarketing agents did not direct consumers to review any disclosures
related to the offer, and often encouraged consumers to write down the discount code,
which the agents provided orally, without directing them to go to their website where the
consumer might have seen the disclosures associated with the website coupon.
Respondent’s representations in these calls misled or were likely to mislead consumers
acting reasonably because they presented the false impression that consumers would only
have to pay 50% of a loan’s finance charges. In fact, consumers had to pay all of the

finance charges on these loans; the discount code provided them the opportunity to
37.

38.

receive a rebate after they made their first scheduled payment, and then only of 50% of
the finance charge portion of that payment.

Respondent’s statements were material because they related to the cost of Respondent’s
loan products.

Respondent’s representations set forth above constitute deceptive acts or practices in

violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536(a)(1)(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s Failure to Establish Consumer Reporting

39.

40.

Al.

42.

43.

Policies and Procedures

Respondent furnishes information relating to consumers to one or more CRAs for
inclusion in a consumer report. 12 C.F.R. § 1022.41(c). It is therefore a furnisher under
Regulation V.

Regulation V requires a furnisher to establish and implement reasonable written policies
and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information relating to
consumers that it furnishes to a consumer reporting agency. 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42(a).
Regulation V also requires furnishers to consider the guidelines provided in Appendix E
when developing its policies and procedures and to incorporate those guidelines that are
appropriate. 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42(b).

Regulation V also requires each furnisher to review its policies and procedures
periodically and update them as necessary to ensure their continued effectiveness. 12
C.F.R. § 1022.42(c).

Between 2013 and 2015, Respondent furnished information—including loan amount,
consumer’s loan status, whether the loan was in default, and whether the consumer had

disputed the debt in some way or entered into bankruptcy—for about 20,000 accounts.
44,

45.

46.

47.

From at least January 2013 to May 2015, Respondent did not have reasonable written
policies and procedures concerning the accuracy and integrity of the consumer
information that it furnished to CRAs, nor did it consider federal guidelines in developing
its policies and procedures as required by federal law.

Respondent failed to review its policies and procedures periodically and update them as
necessary to ensure their continued effectiveness.

Respondent therefore violated 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42(a)-(c).

Respondent’s violations of the FCRA and Regulation V constitute violations of the

CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

Findings and Conclusions as to Inadequate Disclosures of the APR in Telemarketing Calls

48.

49.

50.

S1.

52.

53.

Respondent is a creditor under Regulation Z. 15 U.S.C. § 1602(g); 12 C.F.R. §
1026.2(a)(17).

Respondent’s telemarketers call consumers who have expressed interest in a loan online.
From January 1, 2013 through July 2015, Respondent made hundreds of thousands of
telemarketing calls to consumers.

TILA requires that when creditors respond orally to consumers’ inquiries about the cost of
closed-end credit (for example, the interest rate), they must disclose the cost as an APR.
15 U.S.C. § 1665a; 12 C.F.R. § 1026.26(b).

Often, when consumers asked Respondent’s telemarketing agents about the interest on
loans or other questions relating to cost, the agents responded orally but failed to provide
the APR as required by federal law.

Respondent’s call scripts provided no guidance on how to answer a consumer’s question

about the interest rate or other costs of the loan.
54.

55.

56.

2020-BCFP-0001 Document1 Filed 04/01/2020 Page 11 of 29

In September 2014, a member of Respondent’s compliance team raised, in writing, a
concern that Respondent’s lack of guidance about how to lawfully disclose a loan’s cost
and APR could result in violations of TILA. Respondent did not revise or update its
script, nor provide further guidance to telemarketers in response to this issue.
The failure to state the APR when orally responding to consumers’ questions about the
costs of the loans violates Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.26.
Respondent’s violations of TILA and Regulation Z constitute violations of the CFPA. 12
ULS.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

ORDER

V
Conduct Provisions

IT IS ORDERED, under sections 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:

57.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have actual
notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the
following affirmative actions:
a. Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, is permanently restrained from:
1. Engaging in collections conduct the consequence of which is to
harass or annoy a person, including, but not limited to, calling
consumers repeatedly with the intent to harass or annoy, calling
consumers after requests to stop, and repeatedly calling
consumers’ places of work after requests to stop;
il. Placing a call to any person about an account after that person has
notified Respondent, orally or in writing, that the person wishes

Respondent to cease further contact with the person;
iii.

iV.

Placing a call to a consumer’s workplace if the consumer has asked
Respondent not to, or if Respondent knows, or has reason to know,
that such calls are prohibited by the employer; and

In connection with collecting or attempting to collect a delinquent
debt, disclosing the existence of such a debt to any employer, co-
worker, or third-party reference, unless the consumer, after default,
provided his or her documented, voluntary, affirmative, and
specific permission on an opt-in basis for the third-party

communication.

Respondent, and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, in

connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or

performance of any consumer financial product or service, may not misrepresent,

or assist others in misrepresenting, expressly or impliedly:

1.

ii.

iii.

The terms of any discounts it offers, including in its television
advertisements and telemarketing calls with consumers;

That any discount involves a certain percentage discount, unless
the discount is on the total cost of the product, or the advertisement
Clearly and Prominently discloses the limitations of the discount;
or

That any discount provides for a reduction in the cost of a product,
including that it provides a certain percentage “off” the cost of a

product, unless the discount reduces the payments due from the
consumer, or, if the discount is provided via a rebate, the
representation Clearly and Prominently discloses that the discount
is in the form of a rebate.
Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have
actual notice of this Consent Order, and whether acting directly or indirectly, may
not violate the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681-1681x, and its implementing regulation,
Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. pt. 1022, and must take the following affirmative actions:
within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent will review its written policies
and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information relating to
consumers that it furnishes to CRAs, to confirm that they comply with Regulation
V, and update them as necessary to comply. In so doing, Respondent must
consider the guidelines in Appendix E of the Furnisher Rule and incorporate those
guidelines that are appropriate. Respondent must review its policies and
procedures periodically and update them, as necessary, to ensure their continued
effectiveness.
Respondent, and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have
actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, must:
1. Ensure that employees who respond orally to inquiries about the
cost of loan products disclose the APR of the loan product;
il. Within 90 days of the Effective Date, review and update as
necessary, and implement, a training program including: (1)

information on how to correctly disclose the APR of a loan
product; and (2) information on what constitutes an inquiry about
the cost of a loan;

il. Review and update as necessary, and implement, policies and
procedures that include specific instructions on how to respond
orally to an inquiry about the cost of a loan product with the APR.
At aminimum, the policies and procedures for TILA compliance
will require that Respondent examine a randomly selected sample
of telemarketing calls, which at Respondent's discretion may be
live or recorded, for failures to properly disclose the APR of a loan
product on a monthly basis using industry-accepted standards for
selection and testing. If telemarketing agents are identified as
having violated TILA, Respondent will require those agents to
participate in additional TILA compliance training.

IV. Respondent will fully implement the TILA compliance policies
and procedures within 120 days of the Effective Date.

Nothing in this Consent Order shall be read as an exception to this Paragraph.

VI
Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

58.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the Regional Director
for review and determination of non-objection a comprehensive compliance plan
designed to ensure that Respondent’s installment lending, payday lending, title lending,
marketing, collections, and furnishing practices comply with the terms of this Consent

Order (Compliance Plan). The Compliance Plan must, at a minimum:
a. Include detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent Order;

b. Require that Respondent regularly monitor its records of incoming and outgoing
consumer telephone calls;

Cc. Require that Respondent implement an effective method of logging requests by
consumers and third parties not to be contacted about consumer’s accounts and
ensuring that those requests are honored;

d. Require ongoing education and training in TILA, FCRA and the applicable terms
of this Consent Order for all appropriate employees, with training tailored to each
individual’s job duties or other role within the company. Respondent will
document its training program and will review and update its training program at
least annually to ensure that it provides appropriate individuals with the most
relevant information. The training described in this paragraph must occur at least
once per year during the term of this Consent Order, and may occur more
frequently at the sole discretion of Respondent. Applicable new employees must
receive the training described in this paragraph within 60 days of hire.

e. Require that the Compliance Plan be updated at least annually—or as required by
changes in laws or regulations, or changes in Respondent’s business strategies or
activities—to ensure that the Compliance Plan remains current and effective; and

f. Include specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps
described above.

59. The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of non-objection

to the Compliance Plan or direct the Respondent to revise it. If the Regional Director
60.

My ‘
Peres
eA

directs the Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan, the Respondent must make the
revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to the Regional Director within 45 days.
After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a determination of non-
objection to the Compliance Plan, the Respondent must implement and adhere to the

steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

Vil
Order to Pay Redress

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

6l.

62.

Within 20 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must reserve or deposit into a
segregated deposit account $286,675.64, for the purpose of providing redress to Affected
Consumers as required by this Section.

Within 60 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the Regional Director
for review and non-objection a comprehensive written plan for providing redress
consistent with this Consent Order (Redress Plan). The Regional Director will have the
discretion to make a determination of non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct the
Respondent to revise it. If the Regional Director directs the Respondent to revise the
Redress Plan, the Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Redress Plan to
the Regional Director within 15 days. After receiving notification that the Regional
Director has made a determination of non-objection to the Redress Plan, the Respondent
must implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes

outlined in the Redress Plan.
63.

The Redress Plan must:
a. Provide for full restitution of the total difference between what Affected
Consumers actually received from the discount advertised on television and the

full amount of a 50% discount on all finance charges on their loans;

b. Provide that the redress will be provided as a bank check mailed to each Affected
Consumer;
Cc. Include a detailed description of the procedures to be used to issue and track

redress payments;

d. Provide that Respondent shall pay for all costs of administering the Redress Plan
as required by this Section;

e. Include the forms of the letters (Notification Letters) to be sent notifying Affected
Consumers of the redress described in this Section, and a description of the

process of sending the Notification Letters to consumers, which must include the

following:
1. Respondent must send the Notification Letters by United States
Postal Service first-class mail, address correction service
requested, to the consumer’s last address as maintained by
Respondent’s records;
ll. Respondent must mail a redress check with the Notification Letter

and include language in the Notification Letter explaining how the
amount of the redress payment to the consumers was calculated; a
statement that the provision of the redress payment is in

accordance with the terms of this Consent Order; and a statement
explaining that the redress payment will not subject the consumer
to any new debt collection or credit reporting activities;

il. If the consumer, as of the Effective Date, has an allegedly
outstanding debt with Respondent from a title or installment loan,
the Notification Letter must state the amount of the consumers’
outstanding debt. Respondent may not offset the amount of the
redress payment against the allegedly outstanding debt;

IV. Respondent must not include in any envelope containing a
Notification Letter any materials other than the approved
Notification Letter and redress check;

Require Respondent to make attempts to obtain a current address for any
consumer whose redress check is returned for any reason, using at least the
National Change of Address System, and to promptly re-mail all returned redress
checks to current addresses. If a redress check for any consumer is returned to
Respondent after such second mailing, or if a current mailing address cannot be
identified using the National Change of Address System, Respondent must retain
the redress amount of such consumer for a period of one hundred and eighty (180)
days from the date the check was originally mailed, during which period such
amount may be claimed by such consumer upon appropriate proof of identity;
Include the form of a notification to be posted Clearly and Prominently on the
home page of its website, www.cashstore.com, with information about the class

of Affected Consumers, the redress provided by Respondent, and contact
64.

65.

66.

67.

aP4 ‘
PF Pte.
eo Wt on

information for consumers to inquire about whether they qualify as an Affected
Consumer;

h. Require a report be prepared by an internal auditor or third party documenting
completion of redress, including any funds that Respondent was not able to return
to Affected Consumers.

The total amount of redress payable to Affected Consumers under this Order shall not

exceed $286,675.64.

After completing the Redress Plan, if the amount of redress provided to Affected

Consumers is less than $286,675.64, within 30 days of the completion of the Redress Plan,

Respondent must pay to the Bureau, by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s

agent, and according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions, the difference between the

amount of redress provided to Affected Consumers and $286,675.64.

The Bureau may use these remaining funds to pay additional redress to Affected

Consumers. If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that additional redress is

wholly or partially impracticable or otherwise inappropriate, or if funds remain after the

additional redress is completed, the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S.

Treasury as disgorgement. Respondent will have no right to challenge any actions that the

Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.

Respondent may not condition the payment of any redress to any Affected Consumer

under this Consent Order on that Affected Consumer waiving any right.
Vill
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalties

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

68.

69.

70.

71.

Under section 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the violations of

law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, and taking into account the factors in

12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a civil money penalty of $1,100,000 to the

Bureau.

Respondent must make the following payments by wire transfer to the Bureau or the

Bureau’s agent, in compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions, to satisfy the

penalty described in Paragraph 68. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent

must pay $500,000. Within 60 days of the Effective date, Respondent must pay an

additional $300,000. Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the

remaining $300,000.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in the Civil

Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by section 1017(d) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §

5497(d).

Respondent must treat the civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order as a penalty

paid to the government for all purposes. Regardless of how the Bureau ultimately uses

those funds, Respondent may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax benefit for
any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, rermbursement or indemnification from any
source, including but not limited to payment made under any insurance policy,

with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
72.

a ‘
Peres
fea AS

To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related Consumer
Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to, nor may Respondent
benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory monetary remedies imposed in
the Related Consumer Action because of the civil money penalty paid in this action. If
the court in any Related Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of
compensatory monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil
Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting such
offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to the
U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will not be considered an additional civil money penalty

and will not change the amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

IX
Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

73.

74.

75.

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment under this
Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as amended, will accrue on
any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of default to the date of payment, and
will immediately become due and payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid to the fullest
extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must furnish to the
Bureau its taxpayer identifying numbers, which may be used for purposes of collecting

and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of this Consent Order.
76.

fa »
iP vig eit
me Nob ho A

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement in a Related
Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional Director of the final judgment,
consent order, or settlement in writing. That notification must indicate the amount of
redress, if any, that Respondent paid or is required to pay to consumers and describe the

consumers or classes of consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

X
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

77.

78.

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect compliance
obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not limited to, a dissolution,
assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would result in the emergence of a
successor company; the creation or dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that
engages in any acts or practices subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any
bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in
Respondent’s name or address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at
least 30 days before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal address
as points of contact, which the Bureau may use to communicate with Respondent;
and

b. Identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or that
Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names, telephone

numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses.
Cc. Describe the activities of each such business, including the products and services
offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales.

79. Respondent must report any change in the information required to be submitted under
Paragraph 78 at least 30 days before the change or as soon as practicable after the
learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

80. Within 90 days of receiving notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, and again
one year after receiving notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent
must submit to the Regional Director an accurate written compliance progress report
(Compliance Report) that has been approved by the CEO, which, at a minimum:

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and describes in
detail the manner and form in which Respondent has complied with each such
paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order;

b. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has complied with
the Compliance Plan and Redress Plan; and

Cc. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section XI,
unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XI
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

81. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this Consent
Order to each of its executive officers, as well as to any managers, employees, Service
Providers, or other agents and representatives who have responsibilities related to the

subject matter of the Consent Order.
82.

83.

ry A Lay
APY By Reese, GA at oO

: syga se Pei dee ee Se PES yy Ne

POA VPS DP Une Mae 2b UH ao

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this Consent
Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure referred to in Section
X, any future board members and executive officers, as well as to any managers,
employees, Service Providers, or other agents and representatives who will have
responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Consent Order before they assume
their responsibilities.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of a copy of
this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures comply with the requirements
of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seg., within 30 days of delivery, from all persons
receiving a copy of this Consent Order under this Section.

XII
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

84.

85.

Respondent must create, or if already created, must retain for the duration of the Consent

Order, the following business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each
provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions to the Bureau; and

b. Copies of all sales scripts; training materials; advertisements; websites; and other
marketing materials relating to the subject of this Consent Order, including any
such materials used by a third party on behalf of Respondent.

C. For each individual Affected Consumer: the consumer’s name, address, phone
number, email address; amount paid, and quantity of loans.

Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 84 for the duration of the

Consent Order.
a ‘
Peres
fea AS

86. Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 84 available to the Bureau

upon the Bureau’s request.

XII
Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
87. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must provide all

submissions, requests, communications, or other documents relating to this Consent
Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Cottonwood Financial Ltd., File No.
2020-BCFP-0001” and send them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below

address and contemporaneously by email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:
James L. Carley
Regional Director, Bureau Southeast Region
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552

XIV
Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

88. Respondent must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity and location
of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected Consumer. Respondent must
provide such information in its or its agents’ possession or control within 14 days of

receiving a written request from the Bureau.
XV
Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, to monitor Respondent’s compliance with this Consent

Order:

89.

90.

91.

Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent must submit
additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-privileged information, related to
requirements of this Consent Order, which must be made under penalty of perjury;
provide sworn testimony related to requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s
compliance with those requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements.

Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the requirements of
this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those requirements any employee
or other person affiliated with Respondent who has agreed to such an interview. The
person interviewed may have counsel present.

Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil investigative
demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory process.

XVI
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

92.

93.

Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this Consent Order
(e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting requirements) by submitting
a written request to the Regional Director.

The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-material

requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to
a ‘
Peres
fea AS

reporting requirements) if he or she determines good cause justifies the modification.
Any such modification by the Regional Director must be in writing.

XVII
Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

94.

95.

96.

97.

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent the Bureau,
or any other governmental agency, from taking any other action against Respondent,
except as described in Paragraph 95.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability for law
violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the practices described in
Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such practices occurred before the
Effective Date and the Bureau knows about them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau
may use the practices described in this Consent Order in future enforcement actions
against Respondent and its affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or
practice of violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect any right of
the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the Consent Order, or to seek
penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final Consent Order
issued under section 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and expressly does not form,
and may not be construed to form, a contract binding the Bureau or the United States.
This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The Consent Order

will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except to the extent that any
a
PF Pte.
eo Wt on

provisions of this Consent Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated
in writing by the Bureau or its designated agent.

98. Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based on calendar
days, unless otherwise noted.

99. Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that are subject
to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale, obtain the written
agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all applicable provisions of this
Consent Order.

100. The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For any
violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum amount of civil
money penalties allowed under section 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c). In
connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce this Consent Order in federal
district court, the Bureau may serve Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and
Respondent may not contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

101. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete agreement
between the parties. The parties have made no promises, representations, or warranties
other than what is contained in this Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This
Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

102. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be construed as
allowing the Respondent, its officers, or employees to violate any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this 30th day of March, 2020.
 

2020-BCFP-0001 Document1 Filed 04/01/2020 Page 29 of 29

 

Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

29
