cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Short-Term Lender for Unfair
and Deceptive Acts and Practices

APR 01, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau)
announced a settlement with Cottonwood Financial, Ltd., which does business under the
name Cash Store. Cash Store is based in Irving, Texas and owns and operates roughly 340
retail lending outlets in Idaho, Illinois, Michigan, New Mexico, Texas, Utah, and Wisconsin.
The Bureau found that in the course of marketing, servicing, and collecting on high-interest
payday, auto-title, and unsecured consumer-installment loans Cash Store violated the
Consumer Financial Protection Act (CFPA), Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), and Truth in
Lending Act (TILA). The consent order requires Cash Store to pay over $1.3 million in
redress and penalties.

Specifically, the Bureau found that Cash Store made deceptive representations in its
television advertisements and telemarketing calls when promoting “50%-off" all of its loan
fees when it did not in fact provide that discount. Cash Store engaged in unfair practices by
repeatedly calling consumers’ workplaces and references after being asked to stop and not
for purposes of locating consumers, disclosing the delinquency of consumers’ debts to third
parties or using tactics that risked such disclosure, and making excessive calls to consumers
that aggravated, annoyed, and distressed consumers. Cash Store violated the FCRA by
failing to maintain adequate policies and procedures concerning the accuracy and integrity
of the information it furnished to consumer reporting agencies, potentially affecting about
20,000 consumer accounts. Cash Store also violated TILA by failing to provide the annual
percentage rate to consumers when they inquired over the phone about the cost of their
loans.

The consent order issued against Cash Store requires it to provide $286,675.64 in redress
to over 1,200 borrowers whom Cash Store falsely promised 50% off all fees. The consent
order requires Cash Store to pay a civil money penalty of $1,100,000 to the Bureau’s Civil
Penalty Fund. The consent order also prohibits Cash Store from certain collection practices
and requires it to ensure that its employees respond accurately when asked about loan
costs.

The consent order issued against Cash Store is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_cottonwood-financial_consent-

 

r_2020-04.pdf)
HHH

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
