cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Nissan Motor Acceptance
Corporation for Illegal Collections and Repossession Practices

OCT 13, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation (Nissan), an auto financing
subsidiary of Nissan North America, Inc., which services auto loans and leases originated by
Nissan and Infiniti dealerships nationwide. Nissan’s servicing operations are headquartered
in Irving, Texas. The Bureau found that Nissan and its agents: wrongfully repossessed
vehicles; kept personal property in consumers’ repossessed vehicles until consumers paid a
storage fee; deprived consumers paying by phone of the ability to select payment options
with significantly lower fees; and, in its loan extension agreements, made a deceptive
statement that appeared to limit consumers’ bankruptcy protections. These actions violated
the Consumer Financial Protection Act's (CFPA) prohibition against unfair and deceptive
acts and practices. Today's consent order requires Nissan to provide up to $1 million of
cash redress to consumers subject to a wrongful repossession, credit any outstanding
account charges associated with a wrongful repossession, and to pay a civil money penalty
of $4 million. It also imposes certain requirements to prevent future violations and
remediate consumers whose vehicles are wrongfully repossessed going forward.

The Bureau specifically found that, from 2013 through September of 2019, Nissan
repossessed hundreds of consumers’ vehicles despite the consumer having made
payments or otherwise taken actions that should have prevented the repossession. The
Bureau also found that, from at least early 2014 through late August 2017, Nissan’s
repossession agents, with Nissan’s knowledge, demanded that consumers pay a separate,
upfront storage fee for personal property contained in repossessed vehicles. These agents
refused to return consumers’ personal property until the consumers paid the fee.

The Bureau further found that, from 2012 through part of 2017, Nissan deprived consumers
paying by phone of the ability to select pay-by-phone options with significantly lower fees.
Numerous consumers paid $7.95 more to make a phone payment than they would have if
they had known of and selected a different payment option. The Bureau also found that
when Nissan agreed to modify a consumer's loan payments, for tens of thousands of
consumers, Nissan used agreements or written confirmations that included language that
created the net misimpression that consumers could not file for bankruptcy.

The Bureau's consent order requires Nissan to refund fees paid by consumers, credit any
outstanding charges stemming from the repossession, and pay consumers redress for each
day Nissan wrongfully held the car. Nissan must also pay a civil money penalty of $4 million.
The consent order also requires Nissan to prohibit its repossession agents from charging
personal property fees to consumers directly and from demanding fees as a condition of
returning personal property; to correct its repossession practices and conduct a quarterly
review to discover and remediate any future wrongful repossessions; to clearly disclose to
consumers the fee for each method of making a payment by phone before consumers are
asked which method they wish to use; and to stop using any language that creates the
impression that consumers have surrendered their bankruptcy rights.

The consent order is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_nissan-motor-acceptance-
corporation_consent-order_2020-10.pdf Ml (cfob.gov/documents/9239/cfpb_nissan-motor-
acceptance-corporation_consent-order_2020-10.pdf)

 

 

ttt

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
