cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Announces Settlement with TD Bank for
Illegal Overdraft Practices

AUG 20, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) today
announced a settlement with TD Bank, N.A. regarding its marketing and sale of its optional
overdraft service: Debit Card Advance (DCA). TD Bank is headquartered in Cherry Hill, New
Jersey, and operates about 1,250 locations throughout much of the eastern part of the
country. The Bureau found that TD Bank's overdraft enrollment practices violated the
Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) and Regulation E by charging consumers overdraft fees
for ATM and one-time debit card transactions without obtaining their affirmative consent,
and that TD Bank engaged in deceptive and abusive acts or practices in violation of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA). The Bureau also found that TD Bank
engaged in practices prohibited by the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and its
implementing Regulation V. Today’s consent order requires TD Bank to provide an
estimated $97 million in restitution to about 1.42 million consumers and to pay a civil
money penalty of $25 million.

The Bureau specifically found that TD Bank charged consumers overdraft fees for ATM and
one-time debit card transactions without obtaining their affirmative consent in violation of
EFTA and Regulation E, both after new customers opened checking accounts at TD Bank
branches and after new customers opened checking accounts at events held outside of
Bank branches.

The Bureau further found that when presenting DCA to new customers, TD Bank
deceptively claimed DCA was a “free” service or benefit or that it was a “feature” or
“package” that “comes with” new consumer-checking accounts. In fact, TD Bank charges
customers $35 for each overdraft transaction paid through DCA and DCA is an optional
service that does not come with a consumer-checking account. When TD Bank enrolled
some consumers in DCA over the phone, TD Bank deceptively described DCA as covering
transactions unlikely to be covered by DCA. In some instances, TD Bank engaged in abusive
acts or practices by materially interfering with consumers’ ability to understand DCA’s terms
and conditions. In some cases, TD Bank: required new customers to sign its overdraft notice
with the “enrolled” option pre-checked without mentioning the DCA service to the
consumer at all; enrolled new customers in DCA without requesting the customer's oral
enrollment decision; and deliberately obscured, or attempted to obscure, the overdraft
notice to prevent a new customer's review of their pre-marked “enrolled” status in DCA.

The Bureau also found that TD Bank violated FCRA and Regulation V by failing to establish
and implement reasonable written policies and procedures concerning the accuracy and
integrity of consumer-account information it furnished to two nationwide specialty
consumer reporting agencies. The Bureau also found that TD Bank failed to conduct timely
investigations of indirect consumer disputes concerning its furnishing to one of those
specialty agencies.

To provide relief for consumers affected by TD Bank's unlawful overdraft enrollment
practices, the Bureau’s consent order requires TD Bank to provide an estimated $97 million
in restitution to about 1.42 million consumers. TD Bank must also pay a civil money penalty
of $25 million. The consent order also requires TD Bank to correct its DCA enrollment
practices, stop using pre-marked overdraft notices to obtain a consumer's affirmative
consent to enroll in DCA, and adopt policies and procedures designed to ensure that TD
Bank's furnishing practices concerning nationwide specialty consumer reporting agencies
comply with all applicable Federal consumer financial laws.

The consent order is available at: https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_td-
bank-na_consent-order_2020-08.pdf IY (cfob.gov/documents/9124/cfpb_td-bank-na_conse
nt-order_2020-08.pdf)

 

 

tHE
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

li

An official website of the
United States government
