2020-BCFP-0008 Document’ Filed 08/21/2020 Page 1 of 49

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0008

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Go Direct Lenders, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of Go Direct Lenders, Inc. (Go Direct or
Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24 of Regulation
Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in Lending Act
(TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts and Practices—
Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3; and §§ 1031
and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§
5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5563, 5565, the

Bureau issues this Consent Order.
Overview
Go Direct is a mortgage lender that offers and provides mortgages
guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
Go Direct advertises these mortgage products to consumers through direct-
mail advertising campaigns targeted primarily at United States military
servicemembers and veterans.
From March 2017 to April 2019, Go Direct sent consumers over 700,000
advertisements that violate federal law because of misleading and deceptive
statements and inadequate disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop Go Direct from distributing
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.

I.

Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12
U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as

amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5538.
Il.
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 7, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under §§
1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

IV.
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertising Compliance Official” means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 102. The Advertising Compliance
Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,

chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
AAA Pree AAR
POPOL REE BOA
PT ee AF AAA

athe A A

4 ee Ne IRAN ~
sprain 4 Rian AS Pot Peyos De
Aphika da of PRENSA Wa a BP Oe :

Sad
a3

x As
eye fh
i wh ke
Qo res

en

ae
Pe

whe

of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be in a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the back ground
on which it appears; presented before the consumer incurs any
financial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exemplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contained in the advertisement as sent, posted,
published, or disseminated to a consumer.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of

one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
10.

11.

governmental agency brought against Respondent based on

substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent

Order.
g. “Relevant Period” includes from March 1, 2017 to the Effective Date.
h. “Respondent” means Go Direct Lenders, Inc., and its successors and
assigns.

V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Go Direct is a California corporation with its principal place of business in
Sherman Oaks, California.

Go Direct is licensed as a mortgage broker or lender in at least 11 states.
Go Direct is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(19),
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.F.R. §
1014.2, because it is a corporation.

During the Relevant Period, Go Direct has been a “covered person” under
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages in
offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer

financial product[s] or service[s|” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6),

(15)(A)Q@).
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

During the Relevant Period, Go Direct has been subject to the MAP Rule
because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58.
12 C.F.R. § 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 548114).

Go Direct provides “mortgage credit product|s],” as that term is defined in
the MAP Rule. 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

Go Direct’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
in 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, Go Direct has offered “closed-end credit” in the
form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10) & (11).

Go Direct’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end
credit,” as that term is defined in Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10).
Go Direct offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed by
the VA.

Go Direct’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, including veterans

and servicemembers.
19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

From March 2017 to April 2019, Go Direct mailed over 700,000 mortgage
advertisements to consumers in at least 11 states.
Go Direct ceased sending direct-mail advertisements upon receipt of the

Bureau’s Civil Investigative Demand dated April 16, 2019.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations
Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, Go Direct was responsible for both the content
of, and the dissemination of, numerous mortgage advertisements during the
Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements,
as described below.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate
Representations About Cost and Other Credit Terms

Most of Go Direct’s mortgage advertisements stated specific credit terms,
such as an interest rate, annual percentage rate (APR), and costs or fees
associated with the mortgage.

By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, Go Direct represented,
expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a mortgage with those

credit terms.
25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

In fact, Go Direct did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific credit
terms stated in many of those advertisements.

In numerous instances, Go Direct misrepresented the actual credit terms
applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

Numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements described mortgages with a
simple interest rate and APR combination that, on the date of the
advertisement, Go Direct was not actually prepared to arrange or offer.

For example, Go Direct advertisements sent to about 30,000 consumers in
June 2018 advertised a mortgage with a fixed interest rate of 2.75% and an
APR of 2.885%. These advertisements stated in the fine print that this offer
was only available to borrowers with a credit score of 740 or higher.

But for borrowers with a credit score of 740 or higher, the actual APR for
this loan, calculated in accordance with Regulation Z and taking into
consideration discount points required to obtain the advertised interest rate
and prepaid finance charges, was at least 3.162%.

These advertisements also stated in large font on the front page that the
2.75% interest rate and 2.885% APR were available to borrowers with
“FICO scores as low as 500.” But as indicated in the fine print, the

advertised interest rate and APR were not available to borrowers with a
31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

credit score below 740. The APR for this loan may have been even higher
than 3.162% for borrowers with FICO scores below 660.

Accordingly, Go Direct misrepresented the actual APR for loans offered in
these advertisements.

Numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements misrepresented variable-rate
loans as “fixed” rate loans.

For example, Go Direct advertisements sent to about 30,000 consumers in
February 2019 used the word “fixed” in bold font and capitalized letters next
to the advertised interest rate on the first page, but in fine print on the second
page, indicated that the advertised loan was, in fact, a variable-rate
mortgage.

In these advertisements, the phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,” “Variable-
Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” did not appear before the first use of the word
“fixed,” nor was it at least as conspicuous as any use of the word “fixed” in
the advertisements.

In these advertisements, each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate or
payment was not accompanied by an equally prominent and closely
proximate statement of the period for which the rate or payment would be
fixed and the fact that the rate may vary or the payment may increase after

that period.
36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

Numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements misrepresented the existence
and amount of fees or costs to the consumer.

For example, Go Direct advertisements sent to about 30,000 consumers in
November 2017 stated, without qualification or condition, that there was
“No Application or Processing Fee” for the advertised loan.

But the vast majority of consumers who obtained a loan from Go Direct paid
a processing fee, and virtually every consumer who purchased a VA loan
from Go Direct in the three-month period following this advertisement paid
a processing fee. Therefore, the statement “No Application or Processing
Fee” was false or misleading.

In another example, numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements included
the following blanket statement, or a very similar statement: “No Appraisal,
No Assets, & No Income Documentation Needed.” While this statement is
generally true for Interest Rate Reduction Refinance Loan loans, it is not
true for VA cash-out refinance loans, which require appraisals, sufficient
assets, and income documentation. Go Direct rarely made this distinction to
qualify the blanket statement, even though the advertisements explicitly
offered cash-out refinance loans.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in paragraphs 27- 39

were likely to be misled by them.
41.

42.

43.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations
About an Affiliation with the Government

Numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements falsely represented, directly
or by implication, through the use of formats and phrases, that Go Direct
was affiliated with the government or that the advertised product was
endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with the government.

For example, Go Direct advertisements sent to about 28,000 consumers in
July 2018 were enclosed in envelopes that prominently displayed the year
2018 across the bottom with the “20” in white block letters and the “18” in
black box letters, a distinctive format used by the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS). The envelope stated that it was a “Notification” and that the contents
pertained to a “NOTICE” about “VA BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY.” The
enclosed advertisement stated that it was an “ELIGIBILITY ADVISORY”
about “VA BENEFITS” in a banner across the top. It also included a boxed
headline that stated the contents were about a “2018 — VA Policy Change
Advisory.” And in the text that followed, it stated: “The U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs offers you an Interest Rate Reduction based on your

mortgage payment history.” Although the enclosed advertisement stated in
44,

45.

46.

47.

48.

2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 12 of 49

fine print that “This is an advertisement,” these statements and other
characteristics relating to the mailing strongly implied that the solicitations
originated from a lender affiliated with the VA or the IRS.

In fact, those representations were false because Go Direct was not affiliated
with the government.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in paragraphs 42-44
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False Representations About an Increase in Property Value

Numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements misrepresented that Go
Direct had “records” showing that the value of the consumer’s property had
increased over the past year by a specific percentage stated in the
advertisement, creating equity that they could cash out if they refinanced
with a Go Direct mortgage.

For example, Go Direct advertisements sent to about 30,000 consumers in
June 2018 stated, “Our records indicate that the value of your property at
[recipient’s home address] has appreciated by 23% since last year.”
Between November 2017 and April 2019, Go Direct disseminated over

460,000 advertisements that contained this same representation, except that
49.

50.

SI.

2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 13 of 49

some of the advertisements stated that the value of the consumer’s property
had increased by 21% or 22%.

Despite claiming that it had “records” to support these representations, Go
Direct had no such records. Go Direct’s representations regarding the
percentage increase in the value of the consumer’s property were also false.
Go Direct disseminated these advertisements to virtually every region of the
country. In doing so, its property-value-appreciation representations were
not tailored to any particular house, neighborhood, city, state, or region.
Instead, Go Direct represented the same appreciation percentage to everyone
who received an advertisement based on a given template—always 21%,
22%, or 23%, depending on the template used. But residential property
appreciation rates vary significantly depending on location. In light of such
large variations between cities, states, and regions, Go Direct misrepresented
the property appreciation rates for many consumers by using the same rate
for all consumers who received an advertisement based on one of the three
templates.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in paragraphs 47-49
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.
52.

53.

54.

2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 14 of 49

Inadequate Disclosures

Many of Go Direct’s mortgage advertisements stated a period of repayment
or simple annual rate of interest. Under certain sections of Regulation Z,
including § 1026.24(d) and (f), the use of these terms triggers specific
disclosure requirements. Many of the advertisements did not include the
other disclosures that are required.

Numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements stated the period of
repayment, but failed to state the terms of repayment reflecting the
consumer’s repayment obligations over the full term of the loan. For
example, Go Direct advertisements sent to about 34,000 consumers in May
2018 advertised a mortgage for a “15-year term in an amount up to
$453,100.” Although these advertisements stated the period of repayment,
they did not disclose the consumer’s repayment obligations over the full
term of the loan.

Numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements for a loan for which more
than one interest rate would apply stated a simple annual rate of interest, but
failed to state an accurate APR for the loan because the stated APR was not
correctly calculated under Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1026.17(c) and

1026.22.
55.

56.

57.

58.

For example, Go Direct advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to
about 30,000 consumers in February 2019 stated an introductory annual rate
of interest of 2.75% that applied to the first three years of the advertised loan
and an APR of 3.055%. In fact, the APR for the loans promoted in those
advertisements was at least 4.26%. The APR disclosed in the
advertisements did not comply with the accuracy standards set forth in 12
C.F.R. § 1026.22(a)(2).

VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION Z
Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a), “[i]f an advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”

Go Direct violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 23-39,
numerous Go Direct advertisements for credit stated specific credit terms
other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or offered by

the creditor.
Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), if an advertisement sets forth any of the

four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
59.

60.

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t|he terms of repayment, which reflect
the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, including any
balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), (2)(11).

Go Direct violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraph 53,
numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements set forth the period of
repayment, which is a triggering term under § 1026.24(d)(1)(11), but failed to
state the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, pursuant to §

1026.24(d)(2)(i1).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(i)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(i), if a direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annual rate of interest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) Each simple annual rate of interest that will apply.
In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by
adding an index and margin shall be disclosed based on
a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each simple
annual rate of interest will apply; and

(C) The [APR] for the loan. If such rate is variable, the
[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
61.

62.

$§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

Go Direct violated § 1026.24(f)(2)(i) because, as described in Paragraphs 54
and 55, numerous Go Direct direct-mail mortgage advertisements for a loan
for which more than one interest rate would apply stated a simple annual rate
of interest, but did not disclose an APR that was correctly calculated under

the accuracy standards set forth in Regulation Z.
Misleading Use of the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24()(1)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24()(1), mortgage advertisements may not:

Us[e] the word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the
credit transaction in an advertisement for variable-rate
transactions or other transactions where the payment will
increase, unless:

(1) In the case of an advertisement solely for one or more
variable-rate transactions,

(A) The phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,”
“Variable-Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” appears in the
advertisement before the first use of the word “fixed”
and is at least as conspicuous as any use of the word
“fixed” in the advertisement; and

(B) Each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate or
payment is accompanied by an equally prominent and
closely proximate statement of the time period for
which the rate or payment is fixed, and the fact that the
rate may vary or the payment may increase after that
period....
63.

64.

65.

66.

Go Direct violated § 1026.24(1)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs 32-
35, numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements for variable-rate

transactions used the word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the credit
transaction and did not comply with the requirements of § 1026.24(i)(1)(1).

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP RULE (REGULATION N)
Misrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he annual
percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”
applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a
misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

Go Direct violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-31,
numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations

about the APR applicable to a mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations About Fees or Costs, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly

or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he existence,
67.

68.

69.

nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer associated with the
mortgage credit product, including but not limited to misrepresentations that
no fees are charged.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is
specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

Go Direct violated § 1014.3(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 36-39,
numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer

associated with a mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations Using the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t|he
variability of interest, payments, or other terms of the mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to misrepresentations using the word
‘fixed.’” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Go Direct violated § 1014.3(g) because, as described in Paragraphs 32-35,
numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the variability of interest, payments, or other terms of a mortgage by

using the word “fixed” to describe a variable-rate mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations About Government Affiliation, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n)

70. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about:

the association of the mortgage credit product or any provider
of such product with any other person or program, including

but not limited to misrepresentations that:

(1) The provider is, or is affiliated with, any
governmental entity or other organization; or

(2) The product is or relates to a government benefit, or
is endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with any
government or other program, including but not limited
to through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that

resemble those of such entity, organization, or
program.

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

71. Go Direct violated § 1014.3(n) because, as described in Paragraphs 42-44,
numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit product was affiliated
with the government.

Misrepresentations About Consumer’s
Ability to Obtain Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(q)
72.

73.

74.

75.

70.

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(q), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t|he
consumer’s ability or likelihood to obtain any mortgage credit product or
term.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Go Direct violated § 1014.3(q) because, as described in Paragraphs 28, 30,
and 39, numerous Go Direct mortgage advertisements contained
misrepresentations about the consumer’s ability or likelihood to obtain the
advertised mortgage credit product or term.

VIOLATIONS OF THE CFPA

Under the CFPA, it is unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Information that is likely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers.
77.

78.

79.

80.

Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 23-41, Go Direct’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
specific credit terms were available or would be arranged or offered by the
creditor, including representations about specific APRs, the variable or fixed
nature of rates or payments, processing fees, or the need for appraisals, when
in fact those specific credit terms were not available or were not terms that
Go Direct was actually prepared to arrange or offer.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised credit
terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers acting
reasonably under the circumstances.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Go Direct engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About Government A ffiliation
81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 23 of 49

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 42-46, Go Direct’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that Go
Direct was affiliated with the government.

In fact, Go Direct was not affiliated with the government.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were likely to
mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were material
because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of consumers.
Therefore, Go Direct engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1 )(B).

Deceptive Representations About Consumers’

Ability or Likelihood to Obtain the Advertised Mortgage or Credit Term

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 28, 30, and 39-41, Go
Direct’s mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication,
that assets and income documentation were not required to obtain a cash-out
refinance mortgage or that the credit terms stated in the advertisements were
available to borrowers with “FICO scores as low as 500.”

In fact, assets and income documentation are required to obtain a cash-out

refinance mortgage and the credit terms stated in the advertisements
88.

89.

90.

91.

92.

2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 24 of 49

containing the phrase “FICO scores as low as 500” were not available to
borrowers with FICO scores as low as 500.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations that assets and income documentation were
not required to obtain a cash-out refinance mortgage and that credit terms
stated in the advertisements were available to borrowers with “FICO scores
as low as 500” were likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations that assets and income documentation were
not required to obtain a cash-out refinance mortgage and that credit terms
stated in the advertisements were available to borrowers with “FICO scores
as low as 500” were material because they were likely to affect the conduct
or decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Go Direct engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About an Increase in Property Value

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 47-51, Go Direct’s
mortgage advertisements claimed Go Direct had “records” indicating that
the value of the consumer’s property had increased over the past year by a
specific percentage stated in the advertisement.

In fact, Go Direct had no such records.
93.

94.

95.

96.

97.

98.

2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 25 of 49

In many instances, Go Direct’s representations regarding the percentage
increase in the value of the consumer’s property were false.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations about increases in the value of the
consumer’s property, and that it had records indicating that the value had
increased, were likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Go Direct’s misrepresentations about increases in the value of the
consumer’s property, and that it had records indicating that the value had
increased, were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Go Direct engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Violations of the CFPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule

Under the CFPA, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules
thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5536(a)(1)(A), 5481(14).

Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.
99.

Go Direct’s violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 8-73, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12
U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

VI.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

IT IS ORDERED, under 8§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§

5563, 5565, that:

100. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, and

in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale

of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or
by implication:

1. Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to the following: the total
costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or

central characteristics;
AAPA BLAS Pieaci iyaearnt - lene RFA FOS meen “OF wt AQ
Sa teed WAS RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POPS! ASQ a PP le » OSA MS Me FG rae

2. The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any

consumer;
3. The value or appreciation of the consumer’s property; or
4. The amount of equity the consumer has in his or her property.

Including or using any words, phrases, images, or design

characteristics that falsely state or imply that:

1. The source of the advertisement is the government or the
consumer’s current lender or is affiliated with the government
or the consumer’s current lender; or

2. The advertisement is anything other than an advertisement for a
mortgage;

Including or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or

design characteristics:

1. “Benefit announcement”

2. “Eligibility advisory”

3. “Eligibility notice”

4, “Eligibility status”

5. “Expiration notice”

6. “Pending authorization”

7. “VA loan department”
101.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

“VA loan representative”

“VA loan specialist”

“VA program customer support”

“VA specialist”

“Waiting period”

The IRS signature year style (two digits in white or outlined
text and the other two digits in black text);

The format of an IRS form, including Form W-2, or a
substantially similar format; or

Any VA or United States Department of Defense (DOD) logo,
or a logo, emblem, or other representation that resembles—or
that a consumer could reasonably interpret as—a VA or DOD

logo;

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or

offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following

affirmative actions:

a. Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and implied

claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.
b.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement, if the advertisement
includes more than one credit product, the terms, features,
characteristics, and benefits of each product must be grouped together
and labeled with a statement Clearly and Prominently indicating the
specific product to which those terms, features, characteristics, or
benefits apply.

If Respondent screens or selects consumers to receive any direct-mail
mortgage advertisements based on consumers’ credit scores or credit
tiers, those advertisements may only contain specific credit terms that
are available to consumers with a credit score equal to or less than the
credit score or credit tier of the recipient consumers.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement, if the advertisement states
an interest rate or APR that is available only to consumers whose
credit scores are above a threshold number, that fact (including the
applicable credit score threshold) must be disclosed Clearly and
Prominently on the same side of the advertisement as the advertised
interest rate or APR.

Ifa mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the
amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minimum:

1.

2.

The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

The amount of each payment that will apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

The period during which each payment will apply;

The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment

obligation will be greater;

The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and
The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate

may be increased after consummation, that fact.

In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,

Respondent must:
2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 31 of 49

1.

State, Clearly and Prominently, that the product is an
“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” before the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

For each simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based
on an index and margin, base the rate on an index value in
effect on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior,
and disclose the index and margin; and

State that more information about adjustable rate mortgages is

available at https://files.consumerfinance. gov/f/201401_cfpb_

 

booklet_charm.pdf.

 

Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be

made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under

Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, must be:

1.

In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments
triggering the required disclosures;

Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

Otherwise compliant with Regulation Z, as applicable.
VI.

Advertising Review

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

102. Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the following
affirmative actions:

a. Respondent’s Advertising Compliance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it is
compliant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims
made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

b. Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is
mailed to consumers, the Advertising Compliance Official must
review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any
envelope, mailer, and enclosures—to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,

expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
~ : of pay eae ee ax me ~ o~
Pee. eyscard of Ciad Me Poat Fao Baan GR? AF AQ
POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe PEGs BeNe SOP ei et PY esti tet OS oS fbr aa
te AEN Ed PoP A PP ee : NS i

substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is disseminated. This requirement
applies whether the set is mailed as a single set or in multiple sets or
subsets. It also applies whether the set is mailed out at a single time or
over a period.

The Advertising Compliance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement
includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availability of the advertised rate(s). If the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all
inputs assumed when calculating that number. If the advertisement
states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
include any materials used to determine the availability of that

amount.
103.

104.

d. The Advertising Compliance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VIII.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
mortgage advertising complies with all applicable Federal consumer
financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent
Order; and
b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination

of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
105.

106.

107.

the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 15 days.

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

MONETARY PROVISIONS
IX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $150,000 to the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in

compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
108.

109.

110.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil
money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory

monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
111.

112.

113.

penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

X.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must

furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
114.

115.

eae ee a ey
lant Riot fonan Daren 22
ene ow ote ‘ 4
Pie PPA A :

used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
XI.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or

address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
116.

117.

118.

5 PRPS A POA ry mye QAS
O88 fe feoen Pane SQ of dO
SF PP OS : ALIN wer ka Sra

before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the

development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. Identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

C. Describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 116 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to

the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report
119.

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by Respondent’s executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;
Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;
Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an
explanation of why any such instances occurred; and
Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,

sworn under penalty of perjury.
120.

121.

122.

123.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members (if any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was

delivered through that date under Paragraphs 120-121 and a copy of all
124.

signed and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order
under Paragraph 122.
XII.

Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12 C.F.R.
§ 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four
months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated the applicable
commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit

product, the following evidence of compliance with the MAP Rule:

a. Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well
as sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

b. | Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to

consumers; and
125.

126.

127.

Cc. Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.

Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage
advertisements disseminated within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least
5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 102(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retain the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,

including any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
128.

129.

130.

behalf; and
C. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received

directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses

to those complaints or requests.
Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 127 for at
least 5 years after creation of the record.
Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraphs 124-128
available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Go
Direct Lenders, Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP-0008,” and send them by
overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement _Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552
131.

132.

133.

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.
134. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil

135.

136.

137.

investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as

described in Paragraph 138. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
138.

139.

140.

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 125-126 and 128-129 of this Consent

Order will terminate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired.
141.

142.

143.

144.

All other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from
the Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete

agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
2020-BCFP-0008 Document1 Filed 08/21/2020 Page 49 of 49

representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

145. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this | 8day of August, 2020.

    

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

49
