Jun 23 2007 9:40AM THE UPS STORE 3604 S032222002 P-

+

HELANE L. MORRISON (Admitted in California)
Morrison @sec. gov
MARC J. FAGEL (Admitted in California)
FagelM@sec.gov
TRACY L. DAVIS (Admitted in California)
. DavisTL@sec.gov
XAVIER CARLOS VASQUEZ (Admitted in Califomia)

VasquezC@sec. gov
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2600 r> TLRS OS TUSRODRE
San Francisco,CA 94104 annum SP JUN ce oo
Telephone: (415) 705-2500
Facsimile: (415) 705-2501
Attomeys for Plaintiff
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF OREGON
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE cv. -, «
COMMISSION, GV07- 957 ol
Plaintiff,
Vv.
. ; : COMPLAINT ; a,
cee ne SCBAN WOOK ec ene ec enn
Defendant.

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) alleges:
SUMMARY OF THE ACTION
1. This matter involves violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977

(“FCPA”) by defendant Si Chan Wooh, a former executive at Schnitzer Steel Industries

COMPLAINT
(“Schnitzer”), an Oregon-based steel company that sells scrap metal. From at least 1999 -
through 2004, Schnitzer paid more than $1.9 million in bribes to managers of steel mills
in China and South Korea to induce them to purchase scrap metal from Schnitzer.
Defendant Wooh, former Executive Vice President and head of SSI International, Inc., a
Schnitzer subsidiary, offered and paid bribes and aided and abetted Schnitzer’s failure to
maintain accurate books and records relating to the payments. | | |

2. As aresult of these payments, Wooh received bonus compensation from
Schnitzer totaling nearly $15,000. The Commission seeks a court order requiring that
Wooh disgorge his improper compensation, plus prejudgment interest; pay a civil
monetary penalty; and be enjoined from future violations of the FCPA.

| _ JURISDICTION

3. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(4)(1) and
27 of the Secutities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) {15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d)(1)
and 78aal. Defendant has, directly or indirectly, made use of the means and
instrumentalities of interstate commerce and the mails in connection with the acts,

transactions, practices and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.

A UTHORITY TO BRING THIS ACTION
4, The Commission brings this action pursuant to Sections 21(d) and 2c) of the ©
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d) and 78u(e)}. |
| DEFENDANT
5. Wooh, age 52, resides in Tacoma, Washington. From February 2000 until

October 2004, Wooh was the Executive Vice President and head of SSI International,

Inc., a Schnitzer subsidiary based in the United States that assisted in Schnitzer’s sales in

2 | COMPLAINT
_ Asia. Wooh then served as SSI International’s President from October 2004 to
September 2006. Wooh worked at Schnitzer’s facilities in Tacoma, and reported directly
to a senior executive at Schnitzer during the relevant time period. Schnitzer terminated
Wooh’s employment in September 2006. |

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY
6. Schnitzer is incorporated in Oregon and headquartered in Portland, Oregon.
Schnitzer operates three business segments that include a steel manufacturer, a metals
recycling business and an auto parts business. At the time of the conduct described
below, Schnitzer’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to

Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 781(g)] and was listed on the NASDAQ
National Market. In addition, Schnitzer filed quarterly and annual reports with the
Commission pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m]. -

FACTS

A. Background

7. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits any company that issues securities
to the public from offering a bribe (1.e., cash or anything else of value) to a foreign _
offici alto persu ade-that official to-use-his influence to assist the company.in-obtaining or. ce a
retaining business. tn addition, the FCPA requires that public companies keep books and
records that accurately reflect their operations, and that they put in place internal controls
that are reasonably designed to ensure that their books and records are accurate.

-B. Sales to Government-Owned Steel Mills in China

8. From at least 1999 through 2004, defendant Wooh violated the anti-bribery

provisions of the FCPA by causing Schnitzer to pay approximately $205,000 in bribes to

3 COMPLAINT
managers of steel mills in China that were owned, in whole or part, by the Chinese
government. The purpose of the payments was to induce the managers to purchase scrap

metal from Schnitzer. Because the mills were at least partially government-owned, the

- managers were foreign officials within the meaning of the FCPA, and the payments were

improper.
9. Schnitzer paid two types of bribes, or kickbacks, to the managers. For the first
type, Schnitzer paid a “standard” kickback, which was generally $3,000 to $6,000 per

shipment. Schnitzer paid these kickbacks out of the revenue it earned on the scrap metal

_sale. For the second type, Schnitzer participated in a scheme in which the manager of a

steel mill would cause the steel mill to overpay Schnitzer for the steel purchase. The

- manager would then recover the “overpayment” from Schnitzer, in amounts ranging from

$3,000 to $15;000 per shipment.

10. Wooh requested that Schnitzer wire the money for both types of kickbacks to
secret bank accounts in South Korea opened by another SSI employee specifically for
this purpose. Wooh and this employee would then use funds from the secret accounts to

make improper cash payments to managers of Schnitzer’s customers.. In addition to the

_ cash payments, Wooh and the employee gave gifts tothe-managers-of the. government-— .—.-.—_.-__-- __.

owned customers to induce the managers to purchase scrap metal from Schnitzer.

i. From at least 1999 through 2004, Wooh paid over $205,000 in bribes to
managers of Schnitzer’s government-owned customers in China in connection with 30
sales transactions. Schnitzer’s gross revenue for the transactions totaled approximately

$96 million, and Schnitzer earned approximately $6.3 million in net profits on the sales.

4 COMPLAINT
12. Based on the revenue that Schnitzer realized from the bribes to foreign
officials, described above, Wooh received bonus compensation of $14,819.38.
C. Sales to Privately-Owned Steel Mills in China and South Korea -

13. Also from at least 1999 through 2004, Wooh caused Schnitzer to pay
approximately $1.7 million in bribes to managers of privately-owned steel mills in China .
and South Korea. These mills were privately-owned and the managers were not foreign
officials. However, Schnitzer violated the FCPA by failing to properly account for and

_ disclose the bribes in its internal records and public filings.

14. In China, Schnitzer paid approximately $420,000 in such bribes, in
transactions that produced approximately $214 million in.gross revenue for the company.
In South Korea, Schnitzer paid approximately $1.3 million in such bribes, in transactions
that produced approximately $290 million in gross revenue. Wooh and another employee
also provided non-cash gifts to general managers of South Korean customers.

D. Schnitzer’s Investigation and Subsequent Events
15. In May 2004, Si Wooh disclosed to Schnitzer’s compliance department the

fact he made payments as described above. Based on this information, Schnitzer began

_____________to investigate the potential FCPA violations.Even after disclosing this practice to the coe

compliance department, Wooh made two additional payments to managers in South
. Korea; a senior Schnitzer executive authorized the payments in order to satisfy
outstanding agreements.

16. Around the same time as his discussions with Schnitzer’s compliance. |
department, Wooh authorized SSI employees.in South Korea to destroy documents

_ concerning the improper payments to foreign officials and general managers of private

5 COMPLAINT
steel mills. Wooh’s conduct contributed to Schnitzer’s failure to keep accurate and
required books and records in violations of the FCPA.
FIRST CLAIM

violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act
(Anti-bribery provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) —

17. Paragraphs 1 through 16 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

18. Wooh made payments, through money and gifts, to foreign officials for the
purpose of influencing their official acts and decisions and inducing them to use their
influence to assist Schnitzer in obtaining or retaining business with foreign steel mills.
Throughout the relevant period, the recipients of these offers and payments were foreign
officials within the meaning of the FCPA, and the relevant foreign steel mills were
instrumentalities of foreign governments within the meaning of the F CPA.

19. By reason of the foregoing, Wooh violated the illegal offers and payments
provisions of the FCPA, codified as Section 30A of the Exchange Act [15 US.C.

§ 78dd-1]. | |
SECOND CLAIM

Aiding and Abetting violations of Section13(b)(2) (A) of the Exchange Act

 

7 _..._ (Books and Records)...

20. Paragraphs 1 through 16 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

21. With respect to the offers and payments described above, Schnitzer failed to
make and keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets, in violations of Section
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)).
| 22. Wooh, knowingly or recklessly provided substantial assistance to Schnitzer’s

violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

6 COMPLAINT
23. By reason of the foregoing, Wooh aided and abetted Schnitzer’s failure to
- make and keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets, in violations of Section _
13(b)(2(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

| PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court:

1. Permanently enjoin Wooh and his agents, servants, employees, attorneys, and
all persons in active concert or participation with them who receive actual notice of the
judgment by personal service or otherwise from directly or indirectly violating, or aiding
and abetting violations of, Sections 30A:and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act;

2. Order Wooh to disgorge all wrongfully obtained benefits, plus prejudgment
interest: | |

3. Order Wooh to pay civil penalties under Sections 21(d) and 32(d) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d) and78 ff];

4. Retain jurisdiction of this action in accordance with the principles of equity and

the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in order to implement and carry out the terms of all

———------ orders-and. decrees-that-may-be-entered, or to-entertain-any suitable application-or- motion we coin ete so tnenneenns

for additional relief within the jurisdiction of this Court; and

7 ~ COMPLAINT
5. Grant such other and further relief as the Court may deem. just, equitable, and ©

appropriate.

Dated: June 27, 2007

~ Respectfully submitted,

pe Yiette lado Lbepapy
YS * Helane L. Morrison
Marc J. Fagel
Tracy L. Davis .

Xavier Carlos Vasquez

Attorneys for Plaintiff
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

8 COMPLAINT
