UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA g,,
STATESVILLE DIVISION "re sip

CASE No. 5:13-cv-00092-RLV-DSC ac r 2
oo ee nna mils ° zon
“ern hice
U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES Pes ick Cea.
TRADING COMMISSION, : : Ne
Plaintiff,
v. ORDER
CARL DAVID WRIGHT,
Defendant.

 

 

ORDER OF PERMANENT INJUNCTION AND
OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF AGAINST
DEFENDANT CARL DAVID WRIGHT
On June 24, 2013, Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC” or
“Commission”) filed a Complaint for Injunctive and Other Equitable Relief and Penalties Under
the Commodity Exchange Act (“Complaint”) against Defendant Carl David Wright (“Wright”)
seeking injunctive and other equitable relief for violations of the Commodity Exchange Act (the
“Act”), 7 U.S.C. §§1 ef seg. (Supp. TV 2011) and the Commission Regulations (“Regulations”)
promulgated thereunder, 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.1 et seg. (2012). Specifically, the CFTC’s Complaint
alleged that Defendant has violated Sections 4b(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§§ 6b(a)(1)(A), (C) (Supp. II 2009), Sections 4m(1) and 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§§ 6m and 60(1)(A), (B) (2006), and Commission Regulation (“Regulation”) 4.20, 17 C.F.R.

§ 4.20 (2012).

Case S:1S-cv0092-RLV-DSC Document6 Filed To/eafnis Page Lof 15

 
I, CONSENTS AND AGREEMENTS

To effect partial settlement of the matters alleged in the Complaint against Wright
without a trial on the merits or any further judicial proceedings, Wright:

1, Consents to the entry of this Consent Order for Permanent Injunction and Other
Equitable Relief Against Defendant David Carl Wright (“Consent Order”);

2. Affirms that he has read and agreed to this Consent Order voluntarily, and that no
promise, other than as specifically contained herein, or threat, has been made by the Commission
or any member, officer, agent or representative thereof, or by any other person, to induce consent
to this Consent Order;

3. Acknowledges service of the summons and Complaint;

4. Admits the jurisdiction of this Court over him and the subject matter of this action
pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, as amended, TU.S.C. § 13a-1;

5. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission over the conduct and transactions at
issue in this action pursuant to the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 1, et seq.;

6. Admit that venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the
Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(e);

7. Waives:

a any and all claims that he may possess under the Equal Access to Justice
Act, 5 ULS.C, § 504 (2006) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2006), and/or the rules promulgated by the
Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1 ef seq.

(2012), relating to, or arising from, this action;

Case 5:13-cv-00002-RLY-DSC Document6 Filed 10/28/13 Page 2 of 15

 

 
b. any and all claims that he may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat. 847,
857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112, 204-205 (2007),
relating to, or arising from, this action; .

c. any claim of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this action or
the entry in this action of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any other relief,
including this Consent Order; and

d. any and all rights of appeal from this action;

8. Consents to the continued jurisdiction of this Court over him for the purpose of
implementing and carrying out the terms and conditions of all orders and decrees, including
orders setting the appropriate amounts of restitution, disgorgement and civil monetary penalty,
that may be entered herein, to entertain any suitable application or motion for additional relief
within the jurisdiction of the Court, to assure compliance with this Consent Order and for any
other purpose relevant to this action, even if Wright now or in the future resides outside the
jurisdiction of this Court;

9. Agrees that he will not oppose enforcement of this Consent Order by alleging that
it fails to comply with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and waives any
objection based thereon;

10. Agrees that neither Wright, nor any agents or employees under his authority or
control, shall take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
allegation in the Complaint or Conclusions of Law in this Consent Order, or creating or tending
to create the impression that the Complaint and/or this Consent Order is without a factual basis;

provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect his: (a) testimonial obligations; or

3

Case 5:13-cv-00002-RLY-DSC Document6 Filed 10/28/13 Page 3 of 15

 

 
(b) right to take legal positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Wright shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of his agents and/or employees under
his authority or control understand and comply with this agreement;

11. Admits to all of the findings made in this Consent Order and all of the allegations
in the Complaint. Further, Wright agrees and intends that the allegations contained in the
Complaint and all of the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law contained in this Consent
Order shali be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect, without further proof, in
the course of: (a) any current or subsequent bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or
against Wright; (b) any proceeding pursuant to Section 8a of the Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C.

§ 12a, and/or Part 3 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 3.1 et seg. (2012); and/or (c) any
proceeding to enforce the terms of this Consent Order;

12. Agrees to provide immediate notice to this Court and the Commission by certified
mail, in the manner required by paragraph 40 of Part IV of this Consent Order, of any
bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or against Wright, whether inside or outside the
United States; and .

13. Agrees that no provision of this Consent Order shall in any way limit or impair
the ability of any other person or entity to seek any legal or equitable remedy against him in any
other proceeding.

14. Wright consents to pay restitution, plus post-judgment interest, in an amount to be

determined upon subsequent consent order or motion by the CFTC and/or hearing before this

Coutt.

4

Case S5:13-cv-00002-RLY-DSC Document6 Filed 10/28/13 Page 4 of 15

 

 
15. | Wright consents to pay a civil monetary penalty, plus post-judgment interest, in
an amount to be determined upon subsequent consent order or motion by the CFTC and/or
hearing before this Court.

16. The Court, being fully advised in the premises, finds there is good cause for entry
of this Consent Order and that there is no just reason for delay. The Court therefore directs the
entry of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and a permanent injunction and ancillary
equitable relief pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1, as set forth herein.

Il, FINDINGS OF FACT

17. In early 2008, Wright, who is a teacher and is also the owner of a painting
business, opened a futures trading account in his own name with a futures commission merchant
(“FCM”) registered with the Commission. In his account application, Wright stated that his
investment objective was to speculate and that no other person would have an interest in the
account.

18. Beginning in or about August 2008, Wright began to solicit funds from friends
and acquaintances. He told some individuals that the funds were loans for his painting business
or that the funds would be used to purchase gas stations. He told other individuals that their
funds would be used to trade commodities,

19. Wright provided at least some of these individuals with documents entitled
“Special Renewable Note Agreement” (“Notes”). At least some of these Notes stated that the
funds provided would be invested in “crude oil futures,” “grain futures,” or “currency futures.”
These agreements confirmed the amount received from the participant and also specified that the
participant would receive a specific repayment, which included a profit at a stated rate of interest

varying between 10 and 30 percent. Most of these Notes had terms of no more than 2-6 months.

5

NO0G2-RLYV-DSC Document6 Filed 1o/28/13 Page 5 of 15

   

 

 
20. Wright told at least some of the participants that he was the managing partner of a
commodity pool and that he would send their funds to be traded by a firm called “Commodity
Investment Group.” Some of the Notes Wright provided to participants appeared to be printed
on “Commodity Investment Group” letterhead, but, in fact, Wright designed and printed those
documents on his home computer. Wright signed the Notes as the “Managing Partner” of the
Commodity Investment Group.

21, Regardless of what Wright told these individuals, he instructed all participants to
make their checks payable to him personally and then deposited those funds into his personal
banking account,

22. Wright did not transfer any funds to a firm named “Commodity Investment
Group” and Wright is not the managing partner of any such firm.

23. Wright received at least $1 million in participant funds, of which he wired
approximately $200,000 into his futures trading account. Wright did not, in fact, use most of
those funds to trade commodity futures. Instead, Wright transferred approximately $147,000
back out of his futures trading account to his bank account, often after holding the funds in the
account for only a short period of time. Wright lost approximately $60,000 in trading activities.

24. Wright used the remaining funds to pay back Pool participants in a manner of a
Ponzi scheme and to pay his own personal expenses.

25.  Wright’s statements to Pool participants were false because he knew that he was
not trading the vast majority of the funds that he received, he knew that there was no firm called
“Commodity Investment Group” to which he was transferring funds, he knew that he could not

meet the terms of the promissory notes through legitimate investments, and he knew that he was

6

Case 5:13-cv-00002-RLY-DSC Document6 Filed 10/28/13 Page 6 of 15

 

 
misappropriating the majority of the funds he received to pay supposed returns to participants
and to support his lifestyle.

26. Wright used the United States Postal Service, or other private or commercial
catrier, to receive and make at least some of the payments to Pool participants.

27. On March 22, 2013, Wright was served with a search warrant by the United States
Postal Inspector and the North Carolina Bureau of Investigation. At that time, Wright gave an
informal statement in which he admitted, among other things, that he had solicited funds from
friends and acquaintances, telling at least some of them that their investments would be used to
trade commodities futures contracts, but that he had not used most of the funds to trade
commodities futures, instead using the funds to pay supposed returns to his investors. Wright
also admitted that he created the promissory Notes that he provided to some investors on his
home computer and he claimed that no one else knew that the investments were fraudulent.

Ii. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

The Court, being fully advised in the premises, finds that there is good cause for the entry
of this Consent Order and that there is no just reason for delay. The Court therefore directs the
entry of the following Conclusions of Law, permanent injunction and equitable relief pursuant to
Section 6c of the Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1, as set forth herein.
THE COURT HEREBY FINDS:

A Jurisdiction and Venue

28. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and subject matter of this action

pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(a), which authorizes the CFTC to seek

injunctive relief in a district court whenever it appears to the CFTC that a person or entity has

7

Case 5:19-cv-0002-RLY-DSC Document6 Filed 10/28/13 Page 7 of 15

 

 
engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice that constitutes a violation of
any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or order promulgated thereunder,

29. Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 13a-1(e), because defendant Wright transacted business in this District, and the acts and
practices in violation of the Act have occurred, are occurring, or are about to occur within this
District.

B. Violations of Section 4b(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Act: Fraud by
Misappropriation, Misrepresentation and Omission

30. Defendant Wright, in connection with an order to make, or the making of, any
contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce or for future delivery that is made, or
to be made, on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market, for or on behalf of any
other person has cheated, defrauded or deceived, and/or attempted to cheat, defraud or deceive,
pool participants and prospective participants by, among other things, (a) misappropriating funds
invested by Pool participants; (b) providing participants with Notes that promised a fixed return
of 10-30%; (c) making material misrepresentations including, but not limited to, telling Pool
participants that their funds would be used for commodities futures trading, when he knew that
most of their funds would in fact be misappropriated; and (d) failing to disclose that he was not
registered with the Commission, all in violation of Section 4b(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Act,
7US.C. § 6b(a)(1)(A), (C) (Supp. II 2009).

31. Wright engaged in the acts and practices described above knowingly or with
reckless disregard for the truth.

Cc, Violation of Section 40(1) of the Act: Fraud by a CPO
32. Wright acted as a commodity pool operator (“CPO”) by soliciting, accepting, or

receiving funds from others while engaged in a business that is of the nature of an investment

8

Case 5:13-cv-00002-RLY-DSC Document6 Filed 10/28/13 Page 8 of 15

 

 
trust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise, for the purpose of, among other things, trading in
futures.

33. Wright violated Section 40(1) of the Act, 7.U.S.C. § 60(1) (2006), in that he
employed a device, scheme or artifice to defraud Pool participants and prospective Pool
participants and/or engaged in transactions, practices or a course of business which operated or
operates as a fraud or deceit upon Pool participants or prospective Pool participants. These
fraudulent acts include (a) misappropriating funds invested by Pool participants; (b) providing
participants with Notes that promised a fixed return of 10-30%; (c) making material
misrepresentations including, but not limited to, telling Pool participants that their funds would
be used for commodities futures trading, when he knew that most of their funds would in fact be
misappropriated; and (d) failing to disclose that he was not registered with the Commission.

34, Inthe course of these fraudulent acts, Wright used the mails or other
instrumentalities of interstate commerce including (a) using the United States Postal Service or
other private or commercial interstate carrier to send payments to Pool participants, and
(b) wiring funds to and from his commodity futures trading account.

35. Wright engaged in the acts and practices described above knowingly or with
reckless disregard for the truth.

D. Violation of Section 4m(1) of the Act: Acting as a CPO without
Registration

36. Wright has used the mail or instrumentalities of interstate commerce in or in
connection with a commodity pool as a CPO while failing to register as a CPO, in violation of
Section 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1) (2006).

E. Violation of Commission Regulation 4.20: Failure to Operate the Pool

as a Separate Legal Entity, Accepting Funds in His Own Name, and
Commingling of Pool Funds

9

3

ni6 Filed 10/28/13 Page Sof 15

&

Case 5:1a-cv-00092-RLV-DSC Docur

 

 
37. Wright violated Regulation 4.20(a)-(b), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(a)-(b) (2012), in that
while acting as a CPO, he failed to operate the Pool as a legal entity separate from that of the
CPO and accepted monies from Pool participants for the purchase of interests in the Pool in his
own name.

38. Wright also violated Regulation 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(c) (2012), in that while
acting as a CPO, he commingled funds he received from Pool participants by depositing such
funds into his personal bank account containing his personal funds as well as funds of others
received by him.

IV. PERMANENT INJUNCTION
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

39, Based upon and in connection with the foregoing conduct, pursuant to Section 6c
of the Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1, defendant Wright is permanently restrained, enjoined
and prohibited from directly or indirectly engaging in conduct in violation of Sections
4b(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(L(A), (C) (Supp. II 2009), Sections 4m(1) and
40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C: §§ 6m and 60(1)(A), (B) (2006), and Regulation 4.20, 17
C.F.R. § 4.20 (2012).

40. Defendant Wright is also permanently restrained, enjoined and prohibited from
directly or indirectly:

a. Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in Section 1a of the Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. § 1a) for or on
behalf of any other person or entity, whether by power of attorney or
otherwise, in any account involving commodity futures, options on
commodity futures, commodity options, security futures products, swaps,

and/or forex contracts;

b. Entering into any transactions involving commodity futures, options on
commodity futures, commodity options (as that term is defined in

10

  

MOBiis Page LO of 15

Case 5:13-ov-00082-RLV-DSC DocumentG Fied

 
Regulation 1.3 (hh), 17 C.E.R. § 1.3(hh) (2012)) (“commodity options”),
security futures products, swaps (as that term is defined in Section 1a(47)
of the Act, as amended, and as further defined by Commission regulation
1.3(xxx), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(xxx)), and/or foreign currency (as described in
Sections 2(c)(2)(B) and 2(c)(2)(C)i) of the Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C.

§§ 2(c)(2)(B) and 2(c)(2)(C)@) (“forex contracts”) for or on behalf of any
other person or entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any
account involving commodity futures, options on commodity futures,
commodity options, security futures products, swaps, and/or forex
contracts;

c. Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or
entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account
involving commodity futures, options on commodity futures, commodity
options; security futures products, swaps, and/or forex contracts;

d. Soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the
purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity futures, options on
commodity futures, commodity options, security futures products, swaps,
and/or forex contracts;

e. Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission, except

as provided for in Commission Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R.
§ 4.14(a)(9) (2012); and

f. Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a),
17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a) (2012)), agent or any other officer or employee of any
person (as that term is defined in Section la of the Act, as amended,
7 U.S.C. § 1a) registered, exempted from registration or required to be
registered with the Commission, except as provided for in Commission
Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2012).
Vv. RESTITUTION AND CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY
41. Defendant Wright shall pay restitution plus post-judgment interest, to each
defrauded Participant.
42. Defendant Wright shall pay a civil monetary penalty plus post-judgment interest,

to the CFTC,

11

Case 5:13-cv-00062-RLV-DSC DocumentG Filed 1a/e8/12 Page Li of 15

 
43. The Court shall determine the amounts of restitution and civil monetary penalty
and the procedures for payment and distribution of these monetary sanctions by further order
upon: motion of the parties submitting to the Court a proposed consent order setting out their
agreement on the amounts of restitution and civil monetary penalty to be paid by Wright in this
matter, subsequent motion by the CFTC, and/or hearing before this court.

44. In connection with any Commission motion for restitution and/or civil monetary
penalties, and at any hearing held on such a motion: (a) Wright will be precluded from arguing
that he did not violate the federal laws as alleged in the Complaint; (b) Wright may not challenge
the validity of his consents and agreements herein or this Consent Order; (c) solely for the
purposes of such motion, the allegations of the Complaint and the Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law in this Consent Order shall be accepted as and deemed true by the Court;
and (d) the Court may determine the issues raised in the motion on the basis of affidavits,
declarations, excerpts of sworn deposition or investigative testimony, and documentary evidence,
without regard to the standards for summary judgment contained in Rule 56(c) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure. In connection with the Commission's motion for restitution and/or
civil monetary penalties, the parties may take discovery, including discovery from appropriate
non-parties.

45, Wright shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the CFTC, including the
CFTC’s Division of Enforcement, in any current or future investigation, civil litigation or
administrative matter related to the subject matter of this action. As part of such cooperation,
Wright shali comply, to the full extent of his abilities, promptly and truthfully with any inquiries
or requests for information including but not limited to, requests for production of documents

and authentication of documents, shall provide assistance at any trial, proceeding, or

12

Case 5:13-ov-00092-RLV-DSC Document 6 Filec 12 of 15

 

 
investigation related to the subject matter of this action, including but not limited to, requests for
testimony, depositions, and/or interviews. Should the CFTC file any additional action(s) related
. to the subject matter of this action, Wright is directed to appear in the judicial district in which
such action(s) is pending, or in a suitable judicial district agreed to by the parties, to provide
deposition testimony and trial testimony should such testimony be necessary
VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
46. ~ Notice: All notices required to be given by an provisions in this Consent Order
shall be sent certified mail, return receipt requested as follows:
Notice to Commission:
Regional Counsel, Division of Enforcement
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
525 West Monroe Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, Illinois 60661
Notice to Defendant:
Carl David Wright
3062 Highway 73
Tron Station, NC 28080
All such notices to the Commission shall reference the name and docket number of this action.
47. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Wright satisfies in full his
Restitution Obligation and CMP Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Wright shall
provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to his telephone
number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.
48. — Entire Agreement and Amendments: This Consent Order incorporates all of the
terms and conditions of the settlement among the parties hereto to date. Nothing shall serve to

amend or modify this Consent Order in any respect whatsoever, unless: (a) reduced to writing;

(b) signed by all parties hereto; and (c) approved by order of this Court.

13

ja

Case 5:13-cv-00092-RLV-DSC DocumentG Filed 1Ofea/is

 

 
49, Invalidation: If any provision of this Consent Order or if the application of any
provision or circumstance is held invalid, then the remainder of this Consent Order and the
application of the provision to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected by the
holding.

50. Waiver: The failure of any party to this Consent Order or of any participant at
any time to require performance of any provision of this Consent Order shall in no manner affect
the right of the party or participant at a later. time to enforce the same or any other provision of
this Consent Order. No waiver in one or more instances of the breach of any provision contained
in this Consent Order shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of
such breach or waiver of the breach of any other provision of this Consent Order.

51. Continuing Jurisdiction of this Court: This Court shall retain jurisdiction of the
action to ensure compliance with this Consent Order and for all other purposes related to this
action, including any motion by Defendant to modify or for relief from the terms of this Consent
Order.

52.  Injunctive and Equitable Relief Provisions: The injunctive and equitable relief
provisions of this Consent Order shall be binding upon defendant Wright, upon any person under
his authority or control, and upon any person who receives actual notice of this Consent Order,
by personal service, e-mail, facsimile or otherwise insofar as he or she is acting in active concert
or participation with defendant.

53. Counterparts and Facsimile Execution: This Consent Order may be executed in
two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shail
become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto

and delivered (by facsimile, e-mail, or otherwise) to the other party, it being understood that all

14

 

Case 5:13-cy-00082-RLV-DSC Document 6 Filec Page 14 of 15

 
parties need not sign the same counterpart. Any counterpart or other signature to this Consent
Order that is delivered by any means shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and
valid execution and delivery by such party of this Consent Order.

54. Defendant understands that the terms of the Consent Order are enforceable
through contempt proceedings, and that, in any such proceedings he may not challenge the

validity of this Consent Order.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

Signed: October 28, 2013

 

Richard L. Voorhees
United States District Judge

 

15

Case 5:13-cv-00092-RLV-DSC Document 6 Filed 2 MeSiis Page 15 of 15

 
