U.S. Department of Justice

Criminal Division

 

June 20, 2019

Karen P. Hewitt

Jones Day

4655 Executive Drive

Suite 1500

San Diego, California 92121

Re: Walmart Inc.
Dear Ms. Hewitt:

The United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and the United
States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia (the “Fraud Section and the Office”),
* and Walmart Inc. (the “Company”) pursuant to authority granted by the Company’s Board of
Directors, enter into this Non-Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement”). On the understandings
specified below, the Fraud Section and the Office will not criminally prosecute the Company for
any crimes (except for criminal tax violations, as to which the Fraud Section and the Office do not
make any agreement) relating to any of the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached
hereto as Attachment A (the “Statement of Facts”). The Company, pursuant to authority granted
by the Company’s Board of Directors, also agrees to certain terms and obligations of the
Agreement as described below.

The Fraud Section and the Office enter into this Agreement based on the individual facts
and circumstances presented by this case and the Company, including:

(a) the Company did not receive voluntary disclosure credit because it did not timely
and voluntarily disclose to the Fraud Section and the Office the Mexico conduct described in the
Statement of Facts, and because, although the Company disclosed the conduct related to Brazil,
China, and India prior to the Fraud Section or the Office learning of that conduct, such disclosure
was after the Fraud Section and the Office had already begun investigating the Company relating
to the Mexico conduct;

(b) the Company received full credit for its cooperation with the Fraud Section and the
Office’s investigation into conduct in Brazil, China, and India and partial cooperation credit for its
investigation into conduct in Mexico; its cooperation included: conducting a thorough internal
investigation; proactively identifying issues and facts that would likely be of interest to the Fraud
Section and the Office, and providing updates to the Fraud Section and the Office; making regular
factual presentations to the Fraud Section and the Office and sharing information that would not
have been otherwise available to the Fraud Section and the Office; voluntarily making foreign-

 
based employees available for interviews in the United States; producing documents, including
translations, to the Fraud Section and the Office from foreign countries in ways that did not
implicate foreign data privacy laws; obtaining cooperation of former employees and third parties,
including their consent to interviews; providing counsel to employees and former employees to
facilitate their cooperation; collecting, analyzing, and organizing voluminous evidence and
information for the Fraud Section and the Office; and identifying, investigating, and disclosing
conduct to the Fraud Section and the Office that was outside the scope of the Company’s initial
disclosures; the Company received partial cooperation credit for the conduct in Mexico because,
in the view of the Fraud Section and the Office, Walmart did not timely provide documents and
information to the Fraud Section and the Office in response to certain requests and did not de-
conflict with the Fraud Section and the Office’s request to interview one witness before the
Company interviewed that witness;

(c) by the completion of the investigation, the Company provided to the Fraud Section
and the Office all relevant facts known to it, including information about the individuals involved.
in the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts s and conduct disclosed to the Fraud
Section and the Office prior to the Agreement;

(d) the Company has engaged in significant remedial measures, including enhancing
its anti-corruption compliance program and internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption,
including: (1) hiring a Global Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (““CECO”) who holds an
Executive Vice President position, an International Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer
(“International CECO”), and a dedicated Global Anti-Corruption Officer, with separate reporting
lines to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors; (2) adding dedicated regional and market
Chief Ethics & Compliance Officers, foreign market anti-corruption directors and anti-corruption
compliance personnel at the Company’s home office and in the Company’s foreign markets, with
separate reporting lines to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors; (3) conducting, across
each of the Company’s markets, enhanced monthly and quarterly anti-corruption monitoring by
dedicated Company Financial Controls and Continuous Improvement Teams (who monitor at the
store-level), with results tracked in a centralized, real-time automated monitoring system; (4)
enhancing annual anti-corruption risk assessments across all international markets; (5) enhancing
on-site global anti-corruption audits to test adherence to enhanced anti-corruption related internal
accounting controls and procedures; (6) enhancing anti-corruption related internal accounting
controls on the selection and use of third parties, including building a custom third party automated
portal to evaluate, manage and identify third party intermediaries and conducting third party audits
and risk-based anti-corruption training of third parties; (7) enhancing global anti-corruption
training and awareness program, including enhanced onboarding and annual in-person and
computer-based anti-corruption training for directors, senior management, and employees most
likely to interact directly or indirectly with government officials; (8) implementing an automated
global license management system for obtaining and renewing licenses and permits and a global
donation management system, which enhances controls relating to charitable donations; and (9)
terminating business relationships with third parties involved in the conduct at issue;

(e) the Company has enhanced and has committed to continuing to enhance its
compliance program and internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption, including ensuring
that its compliance program satisfies the minimum elements set forth in Attachment B to this
Agreement (the “Corporate Compliance Program”);

(f) although the Company has engaged in significant remedial measures, the Fraud
Section and the Office have determined that an independent compliance monitor is necessary to
ensure that the Company’s compliance program is operating effectively and adequately tested to
ensure that it meets the minimum elements set forth in the Corporate Compliance Program;

(g) the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct;
(h) the Company has no prior criminal history related to corruption; and

(i) the Company has agreed to continue to cooperate with the Fraud Section and the
Office in any ongoing investigation of the conduct of the Company’s officers, directors,
employees, agents, business partners, distributors, and consultants relating to violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”); ,

Accordingly, after considering (a) through (i) above, the Fraud Section and the Office
believe that an appropriate resolution of this case is this Agreement with the Company, a guilty
plea by WMT Brasilia S.a.r.1., the imposition of an independent compliance monitor for a term of
two years, and an aggregate discount of 25% off of the bottom of the otherwise-applicable U.S.
Sentencing Guidelines fine range for the portion of the penalty applicable to conduct in Brazil,
China, and India, and 20% off of the bottom of the otherwise-applicable U.S. Sentencing
Guidelines fine range for the portion of the penalty applicable to conduct in Mexico.

The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under United States
law for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth in the attached
Statement of Facts. The Company also admits, accepts, and acknowledges that the facts described
in the attached Statement of Facts are true and accurate and that certain employees who had
responsibility for implementing and maintaining internal accounting controls related to anti-
corruption with respect to Walmart’s subsidiaries in Brazil, China, India, and Mexico had
knowledge that the anti-corruption related internal accounting controls in those subsidiaries were
not adequate and willfully failed to implement and maintain them. The Company expressly agrees
that it shall not, through current or future attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents, or any
other person authorized to speak for the Company, make any public statement, in litigation or
otherwise, contradicting the acceptance of responsibility by the Company set forth above or the
facts described in the attached Statement of Facts. The Company agrees that if it, or any of its
current or future direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates, issues a press release or holds any press
conference in connection with this Agreement, the Company shall first consult the Fraud Section
and the Office to determine: (a) whether the text of the release or proposed statements at the press
conference are true and accurate with respect to matters between the Fraud Section, the Office,
and the Company; and (b) whether the Fraud Section and the Office have any objection to the
release. If the Fraud Section and the Office determine that a public statement by any such person
contradicts in whole or in part a statement contained in the Statement of Facts, the Fraud Section
and the Office shall so notify the Company, and the Company may avoid a breach of this
Agreement by publicly repudiating such statement(s) within five business days after notification.
The Company shall be permitted to raise defenses and to assert affirmative claims in other
proceedings relating to the matters set forth in the Statement of Facts provided that such defenses
and claims do not contradict, in whole or in part, a statement contained in the Statement of Facts.
This Paragraph does not apply to any statement made by any former officer, director, employee,
or agent of the Company in the course of any criminal, regulatory, or civil case initiated against
such individual, unless such individual is speaking on behalf of the Company.

The Company’s obligations under this Agreement shall have a term of three years from the
later of the date on which the Agreement is executed or the date on which the independent
compliance monitor (the “Monitor”) is retained by the Company, as described below (the “Term”’).
The Company agrees, however, that, in the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine, in
their sole discretion, that the Company has knowingly violated any provision of this Agreement or
has failed to completely perform or fulfill each of the Company’s obligations under this
Agreement, an extension or extensions of the Term may be imposed by the Fraud Section and the
Office, in their sole discretion, for up to a total additional time period of one year, without prejudice
to the Fraud Section and the Office’s right to proceed as provided in the breach provisions of this
Agreement below. Any extension of the Agreement extends all terms of this Agreement for an
equivalent period, except the term of the monitorship, which has a term of two years and is
addressed in Attachment C. Conversely, in the event the Fraud Section and the Office find, in
their sole discretion, that there exists a change in circumstances sufficient to eliminate the need for
the monitorship in Attachment C, and that the other provisions of this Agreement have been
satisfied, the Agreement may be terminated early.

The Company shall cooperate fully with the Fraud Section and the Office in any and all
matters relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the attached Statement of Facts
and Attachment C, subject to applicable law and regulations, until the later of the date upon which
all investigations and prosecutions arising out of such conduct are concluded, or the Term. At the
request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall also cooperate fully with other
domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as the
Multilateral Development Banks (“MDBs”), in any investigation of the Company, or its affiliates,
or any of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, and consultants, or any other
party, in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the attached
Statement of Facts and Attachment C. The Company agrees that its cooperation shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:

a, Upon request of the Fraud Section and the Office, and subject to applicable law and
regulation, the Company shall truthfully disclose all factual information related to the conduct
described in the Statement of Facts that is not protected by a valid claim of attorney-client privilege
or attorney work product doctrine. This includes conduct of the Company’s affiliates and present
and former directors, officers, employees, agents, and consultants. This obligation of truthful
disclosure includes, but is not limited to, the obligation of the Company to provide to the Fraud
Section and the Office, upon request, any non-privileged document, record, or other tangible
evidence about which the Fraud Section and the Office may inquire of the Company related to the
conduct described in the Statement of Facts.
b. Upon request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall designate
knowledgeable employees, agents, or attorneys to provide to the Fraud Section and the Office the
information and materials described above on behalf of the Company. It is further understood that
the Company must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate information.

c. The Company shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews or
testimony, as requested by the Fraud Section and the Office, present or former officers, directors,
employees, agents, and consultants of the Company. This obligation includes, but is not limited
to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, as well as interviews with
domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities. Cooperation shall include
identification of witnesses who, to the knowledge of the Company, may have material information
regarding the matters under investigation.

d. With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records, or other tangible
evidence provided to the Fraud Section and the Office pursuant to this Agreement, the Company
consents to any and all disclosures, subject to applicable law and regulations, to other
governmental authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign government,
as well as MDBs, of such materials as the Fraud Section and the Office in their sole discretion
shall deem appropriate.

In addition, during the Term, should the Company learn of any evidence or allegation of
conduct that may constitute a violation of the FCPA anti-bribery or accounting provisions had the
conduct occurred within the jurisdiction of the United States, the Company shall promptly report
such evidence or allegation to the Fraud Section and the Office. Thirty days prior to the end of the
Term, the Company, by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, will certify to the Fraud Section and the Office that the Company has met
its disclosure obligations pursuant to this Agreement. Each certification will be deemed a material
statement and representation by the Company. to the executive branch of the United States for
purposes of 18 U.S.C. § 1001.

The Company represents that it has implemented and will continue to implement a
compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws throughout its operations, including those of its affiliates, agents,
and majority owned or controlled joint ventures, and those of its contractors and subcontractors
whose responsibilities include interacting with foreign officials or other activities carrying a high
risk of corruption, including, but not limited to, the minimum elements set forth in the Corporate
Compliance Program.

The Company agreed to retain a Monitor prior to the date on which the Agreement is
executed for the purposes of preparing a written work plan as described in Attachment C. The
term of the monitorship is two years from the date on which the Agreement is executed, subject to
a possible one-year extension as described in Attachment C. The Monitor’s duties and authority,
and the obligations of the Company with respect to the Monitor and the Fraud Section and the
Office, are set forth in Attachment C, which is incorporated by reference into this Agreement. The
Company proposed to the Fraud Section and the Office a pool of three qualified candidates to
serve as the Monitor. The Monitor candidates or their team members had, at a minimum, the
following qualifications:

a. demonstrated expertise with respect to the FCPA and other applicable anti-
corruption laws, including experience counseling on FCPA issues;

b. experience designing and/or reviewing corporate compliance policies, procedures
and internal accounting controls, including FCPA and anti-corruption policies, procedures and
internal accounting controls;

c. the ability to access and deploy resources as necessary to discharge the Monitor’s
duties as described in the Agreement; and

d. sufficient independence from the Company to ensure effective and impartial
performance of the Monitor’s duties as described in the Agreement.

The Fraud Section and the Office retained the right, in their sole discretion, to choose the
Monitor from among the candidates proposed by the Company, though the Company was entitled
to express its preference(s) among the candidates. If the Monitor resigns or is otherwise unable to
fulfill his or her obligations as set out herein and in Attachment C, the Company shall within
twenty business days recommend a pool of three qualified Monitor candidates from which the
Fraud Section and the Office will choose a replacement.

The Monitor’s powers, duties, and responsibilities, as well as additional circumstances that
may support an extension of the Monitor’s term, are set forth in Attachment C. The Company
agrees that it will not employ or be affiliated with the Monitor or the Monitor’s firm for a period
of not less than two years from the date on which the Monitor’s term expires. Nor will the
Company discuss with the Monitor or the Monitor’s firm the possibility of further employment or
affiliation during the Monitor’s term.

The Company agrees to pay a total monetary penalty in the amount of $137,955,249 (the
“Total Monetary Penalty”). The Total Monetary Penalty reflects a discount of 25% off of the
bottom of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range for the portion of the penalty applicable to
conduct in Brazil, China, and India, and 20% off of the bottom of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines
fine range for the portion of the penalty applicable to conduct in Mexico. The Company will pay
the Total Monetary Penalty to the United States Treasury within ten business days of the
sentencing hearing by the Court of WMT Brasilia S.a.r.1. in connection with its guilty plea and
plea agreement entered into simultaneously herewith, except that the parties agree that any
criminal penalties that might be imposed by the Court on WMT Brasilia S.a.r.J. in connection with
its guilty plea and plea agreement will be deducted from the Total Monetary Penalty.

The Total Monetary Penalty is in addition to the $144,691,172 disgorgement of profits plus
prejudgment interest by the Company in connection with its resolution with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission in a related matter. The Company acknowledges that no tax deduction
may be sought in connection with the payment of any part of the Total Monetary Penalty. The
Company shall not seek or accept directly or indirectly reimbursement or indemnification from
any source of the penalty or disgorgement amounts that the Company pays pursuant to this
Agreement or any other agreement entered into with an enforcement authority or regulator
concerning the facts set forth in the attached Statement of Facts.

The Fraud Section and the Office agree, except as provided herein, that they will not bring
any criminal or civil case (except for criminal tax violations, as to which the Fraud Section and the
Office do not make any agreement) against the Company, or any of its present or former
subsidiaries and joint ventures, relating to any of the conduct described in the attached Statement
of Facts, except for the plea agreement with WMT Brasilia S.a.r.1. entered into on June 20, 2019.
The Fraud Section and the Office, however, may use any information related to the conduct
described in the attached Statement of Facts against the Company: (a) in a prosecution for perjury
or obstruction of justice; (b) in a prosecution for making a false statement; (c) in a prosecution or
other proceeding relating to any crime of violence; or (d) in a prosecution or other proceeding
relating to a violation of any provision of Title 26 of the United States Code. This Agreement does
not provide any protection against prosecution for any future conduct by the Company or any of
its present or former parents or subsidiaries. In addition, this Agreement does not provide any
protection against prosecution of any individuals, regardless of their affiliation with the Company.

‘Tf, during the Term, the Company: (a) commits any felony under U.S. federal law;
(b) provides in connection with this Agreement deliberately false, incomplete, or misleading
information, including in connection with its disclosure of information about individual
culpability; (c) fails to cooperate as set forth in this Agreement; (d) fails to maintain a compliance
program as set forth in this Agreement and Attachment B; (e) commits any acts that, had they
occurred within the jurisdictional reach of the FCPA, would be a violation of the FCPA; or ()
otherwise fails to completely perform or fulfill each of the Company’s obligations under the
Agreement, regardless of whether the Fraud Section and the Office become aware of such a breach
after the Term is complete, the Company, or its subsidiaries, shall thereafter be subject to
prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which the Fraud Section and the Office have
knowledge, including, but not limited to, the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts,
which may be pursued by the Fraud Section and the Office in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia or any other appropriate venue. Determination of whether the Company has
breached the Agreement and whether to pursue prosecution of the Company shall be in the Fraud
Section and the Office’s sole discretion. Any such prosecution may be premised on information
provided by the Company or its personnel. Any such prosecution relating to the conduct described
in the attached Statement of Facts or relating to conduct known to the Fraud Section and the Office
prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred by the applicable
statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement must be commenced against the
Company, or its affiliates and subsidiaries, notwithstanding the expiration of the statute of
limitations by the expiration of the Term plus one year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the
Company agrees that the statute of limitations with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-
barred on the date of the signing of this Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. In
addition, the Company agrees that the statute of limitations as to any violation of U.S. federal law
that occurs during the Term will be tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs until the
earlier of the date upon which the Fraud Section and the Office are made aware of the violation or
the duration of the Term plus five years, and that this period shall be excluded from any calculation
of time for purposes of the application of the statute of limitations. Provided, however, that nothing
in this Agreement shall revive a statute of limitations that expired prior to the time that this
Agreement was executed.

In the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company has breached
this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office agree to provide the Company with written notice
of such breach prior to instituting any prosecution resulting from such breach. Within sixty days
of receipt of such notice, the Company shall have the opportunity to respond to the Fraud Section
and the Office in writing to explain the nature and circumstances of such breach, as well as the
actions the Company has taken to address and remediate the situation, which explanation the Fraud
Section and the Office shall consider in determining. whether to pursue prosecution of the
Company.

In the event that the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company has breached
this Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Company to the Fraud Section and
the Office or to the Court, including the attached Statement of Facts, and any testimony given by
the Company before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative hearings, whether
prior or subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads derived from such statements or testimony,
shall be admissible in evidence in any and all criminal proceedings brought by the Fraud Section
and the Office against the Company, or its subsidiaries; and (b) the Company, or its subsidiaries,
shall not assert any claim under the United States Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that any
such statements or testimony made by or on behalf of the Company, or its subsidiaries, prior or
subsequent to this Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom, should be suppressed or are
otherwise inadmissible. The decision whether conduct or statements of any current director,
officer, or employee of the Company, or of any person acting on behalf of and at the direction of
the Company, will be imputed to the Company for the purpose of determining whether the
Company has violated any provision of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the Fraud
Section and the Office.

Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular transaction
or any transaction disclosed to the Fraud Section and the Office prior to the date of this Agreement,
the Company agrees that in the event that, during the Term, it sells, merges, or transfers a whole,
majority, or controlling interest in either the Company or its Walmart International reporting
segment (“Walmart International”), as they exist as of the date of this Agreement, whether such
change is structured as a sale, asset sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form, it
shall include in any contract for sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form a
provision binding the purchaser, or any successor in interest thereto, to the obligations described
in this Agreement. The purchaser or successor in interest must also agree in writing that the Fraud
Section and the Office’s ability to determine there has been a breach under this Agreement is
applicable in full force to that entity. The Company agrees that the failure to include this
Agreement’s breach provisions in the transaction will make any such transaction null and void.
The Company shall provide notice to the Fraud Section and the Office at least thirty days prior to
undertaking any such sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form. Ifthe Fraud Section
and the Office notify the Company prior to such transaction (or series of transactions) that it has
determined that the transaction(s) has the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement
purposes of this Agreement, as determined in the sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the
Office, the Company agrees that such transaction(s) will not be consummated. In addition, if at
any time during the Term, the Company has sold, merged, or transferred a whole, majority, or
controlling interest in either the Company or Walmart International, as they exist as of the date of
this Agreement, whether such change is structured as a sale, asset sale, merger, transfer, or other
change in corporate form, that the Fraud Section and the Office determine in their sole discretion
has the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, it may
deem it a breach of this Agreement pursuant to the breach provisions of this Agreement. Nothing
herein shall restrict the Company from indemnifying (or otherwise holding harmless) the purchaser
" or successor in interest for penalties or other costs arising from any conduct that may have occurred
prior to the date of the transaction, so long as such indemnification does not have the effect of
circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as determined by the
Fraud Section and the Office.

This Agreement is binding on the Company and the Fraud Section and the Office but
specifically does not bind any other component of the Department of Justice, other federal
agencies, or any state, local, or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, or any other
authorities, although the Fraud Section and the Office will bring the cooperation of the Company
and its compliance with its other obligations under this Agreement to the attention of such agencies
and authorities if requested to do so by the Company.

It is further understood that the Company and the Fraud Section and the Office may
disclose this Agreement to the public.

This Agreement sets forth all the terms of the agreement between the Company and the
Fraud Section and the Office. No amendments, modifications or additions to this Agreement shall
be valid unless they are in writing and signed by the Fraud Section, the Office, the attorneys for
the Company, and a duly authorized representative of the Company.

Sincerely,

ROBERT ZINK

Acting Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division

United States Department of Justice

Date: \ [Lo {r0 (4 BY: Vw bp
Tarek Helou, Assistant Chief
Lorinda Laryea, Assistant Chief
Katherine Raut, Trial Attorney

John-Alex Romano, Trial Attorney

G. ZACHARY TERWILLIGER
United States Attorney

United States Attorney’s Office
Eastern District of Virginia

9
 

Date:| 20) 1 BY: ( ZL

ae Walker
ssistant United States Attorney

 

 

AGREED AND CONSENTED TO:

Walmart Inc. M

Date: June a0, PIA BY: dion UY. : Wb
Gordon Y Alliso
Senior Vice President,
Office of the Corporate Secretary, and
Chief Counsel for Finance & Corporate
Governance
Walmart Inc.

Date: Fume Ho, WOl4 BY: Lak, Hem
JONES DAY

Karen P. Hewitt
Counsel for Walmart Inc.

10
ATTACHMENT A
STATEMENT OF FACTS

The following Stipulated Statement of Facts (Statement of Facts”) is incorporated by
reference as part of the Non-Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement”) between the United
States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and the United States Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Walmart Inc. (“Walmart” or the “Company”).
Walmart hereby agrees and stipulates that the following information is true and accurate.
Walmart admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible for the acts of its officers,

- directors, employees, and agents as set forth below:
Relevant Entities and Individuals

le Walmart was, at all times relevant to the conduct described in this Statement of
Facts, a Bentonville, Arkansas-based retail company. Walmart had, at all relevant times, three
segments: Walmart U.S., Sam’s Club, and Walmart International. Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club
were responsible for Walmart’s United States operations, while Walmart International oversaw -
the Company’s operations outside the United States. Each segment was headquartered in
Bentonville, Arkansas. Walmart’s shares were publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange,
and the Company therefore was an “issuer” within the meaning of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act (““FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1, et seq.

2, In or around 2000, Walmart operated retail stores in seven countries. By in or
around 2012, Walmart operated in approximately two dozen countries, including Mexico, India,
Brazil, and China.

3. Walmart Senior Attorney #1 was a senior attorney at Walmart starting in 2002. In
2009, he was promoted to a senior executive non-legal position and left Walmart in 2013.

4. Walmart Senior Attorney #2 was a senior attorney at Walmart from 2001 to 2010.

A-l

 
5. Walmart’s Internal Audit Services (“IAS”), which was renamed Global IAS,
required that foreign subsidiary audit teams conduct periodic Business Practices Audits, which
were designed to audit foreign subsidiary anti-corruption related internal accounting controls.
IAS reviewed these audits.

6. Generally, during the relevant time period, the CEO of each of certain Walmart
foreign subsidiaries reported to the CEO of Walmart International. The CFO and General
Counsel of each of certain Walmart foreign subsidiaries reported to the CEOs of the respective
foreign subsidiaries. In turn, the CEO, CFO, and General Counsel of Walmart Intemational
reported to the CEO, CFO, and General Counsel of Walmart, respectively. The head of IAS and,
later, the head of Global IAS, reported to the CFO of Walmart and the Chairman of the Audit
Committee of Walmart’s Board of Directors.

7. Walmart’s Mexican Subsidiary (“Mexico Subsidiary”) was a publicly traded
company in Mexico. At all times relevant to this Agreement, Walmart owned a majority of
Mexico Subsidiary’s shares. Mexico Subsidiary is Walmart’s largest foreign subsidiary, with
more than 2,000 stores and more than 200,000 employees.

8. Mexico Subsidiary Executive #1 was a senior executive at Mexico Subsidiary in
the early 2000s, during which time he was also an employee of Walmart. He became a senior
executive at Walmart in 2005. He held those positions until 2008 and left the Company in 2012.

9. Senior Mexico Subsidiary Attorney was a senior attorney at Mexico Subsidiary
from 2004 to 2012.

10. Mexico Subsidiary Attorney was an attorney in Mexico Subsidiary’s Real Estate
department from 1991 to 2004.

11. India JV Partner was a business conglomerate based in New Delhi, India.
12. India Wholesale Business was a joint venture between Walmart and India JV
Partner that developed and operated wholesale stores in India.

13. India Retail Business was owned by India JV Partner, operated as a franchisee of
Walmart, and developed and operated retail stores in India.

14. India Wholesale Business and India Retail Business operated as separate
companies created in 2007. The two companies integrated certain of their administrative
functions, including legal and compliance, in approximately 2010. India Wholesale Business and
India Retail Business employed numerous third-party intermediaries (“TPIs”) and consultants
who assisted in obtaining licenses and permits necessary for operating stores in India.

15. India Retail Employee #1 was the head of the Licenses and Permits team for India
Wholesale Business and India Retail Business from approximately October 2011 through
approximately November 2012. In that role, India Retail Employee #1 reported directly to India
Wholesale Business’s General Counsel.

16. India Retail Employee #2 worked in the Licenses and Permits team and obtained
licenses and permits for India Wholesale Business and India Retail Business from approximately
2011 through approximately mid-2013. In that role, India Retail Employee #2 reported directly
to India Retail Employee #1.

17. WMT Brasilia S.a.r.1. was a wholly owned subsidiary of Walmart and was a
majority-owner of Walmart’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Brazil, which was headquartered in
Sao Paulo, Brazil (“WMT Brasilia’). Accordingly, WMT Brasilia was the majority owner of
stores operating as Walmart Brazil.

18. Brazil Intermediary was a TPI hired by two Brazilian construction companies to

obtain permits for two Walmart Brazil stores.
19. China Subsidiary was Walmart’s wholly-owned subsidiary in China.

Background

20. As detailed below, from in or around July 2000 until in or around April 2011,
certain Walmart personnel responsible for implementing and maintaining the Company’s internal
accounting controls related to anti-corruption were aware of certain failures involving these
controls, including relating to potentially improper payments to government officials in certain
Walmart foreign subsidiaries, but nevertheless failed to implement sufficient anti-corruption
related internal accounting controls that, among other things, ensured: (a) that sufficient anti-
corruption-related due diligence was conducted on all TPIs who interacted with foreign officials;
(b) that sufficient anti-corruption related internal accounting controls relating to payments to
TPIs existed; (c) that proof was required that TPIs had performed services before Walmart paid
them; (d) that TPIs had written contracts that included anti-corruption clauses; (e) that donations
ostensibly made to foreign government agencies were not converted to personal use by foreign
officials; and (f) that policies covering gifts, travel, and entertainment sufficiently addressed
giving things of value to foreign officials and were implemented. Despite these issues being
raised to some Walmart personnel responsible for implementing and maintaining the Company’s
internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption, as explained below, sufficient changes
were not made to Walmart’s internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption until in or
around April 2011. Consequently, as explained below, these failures allowed Walmart foreign
subsidiaries in Mexico, India, Brazil, and China to hire certain TPIs without establishing
sufficient controls to prevent those TPIs from making improper payments to government
officials in order to obtain store permits and licenses.

Warnings to Senior Walmart Executives About Anti-Corruption Risks and Control
Failures

A-4
21.  Inor around December 2003, Walmart developed an anti-corruption policy and
procedures guide, followed by ant implementation work plan in or around March 2004. Walmart
did not adopt the anti-corruption policy until in or around March 2005.

22. Onor about December 12, 2008, Walmart issued an updated Global Anti-
Corruption Policy (the “2008 Policy”). Under the 2008 Policy, TPIs included “all agents,
consultants, shareholders.or any other representatives acting on behalf of [Walmart] or its
Affiliated Companies.” For every TPI to be retained or renewed, a due diligence review was
required to include, at minimum, the following: (1) a “Business Unit review,” including, among
other things, the “business case for retaining the Intermediary and the proposed fee structure”;
(2) approved anti-corruption language in the TPI contract; (3) an FCPA certification by the TPI;
(4) an independent due diligence review; and (5) approval in writing of the due diligence review
of the TPI by the foreign subsidiary’s compliance officer, in consultation with a Walmart
compliance officer, who was required to conduct a final legal review of the TPI to ensure all due
diligence requirements had been met. However, the 2008 Policy was not sufficiently
implemented, so certain of Walmart’s foreign subsidiaries did not follow all of the requirements
set forth therein, and Walmart failed to ensure compliance with the 2008 Policy.

23. On or about April 6, 2009, Walmart International announced the creation ofa
Walmart International Compliance Office that revised the existing anti-corruption standard. The
concept for the new standard was “Freedom within a Framework.” Instead of taking a centralized
approach to ensuring that sufficient anti-corruption related internal accounting controls were
implemented throughout Walmart’s foreign subsidiaries, the new anti-corruption standard
allowed individual markets to design and implement their own program as long as it met certain

global standards.
24. -Inor around late 2010, Walmart issued a new “Global Anti-Corruption Policy”
(the “Draft 2010 Policy”). Although the Draft 2010 Policy set forth the Company’s anti-
corruption requirements in greater detail than previous policies, the Draft 2010 Policy still
required Walmart’s foreign subsidiaries to implement their own local anti-corruption policies.
The Draft 2010 Policy left it to the foreign subsidiaries’ business units and legal teams to
conduct TPI risk assessments and determine “the appropriate level of due diligence required.”
The Draft 2010 Policy was never implemented.

25. From in or around July 2000 until in or around April 2011, Walmart’s anti-
corruption related internal accounting controls were insufficient in Mexico, India, Brazil, and
China, and, in a number of instances as detailed below, those insufficiencies were reported to
certain senior Walmart employees and executives. These failures in controls allowed Walmart’s
foreign subsidiaries in Mexico, India, Brazil, and China to hire TPIs without ensuring that those
TPlIs did not make improper payments to government officials in order to obtain store permits
and licenses. The failures in internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption allowed the
foreign subsidiaries in Mexico, India, Brazil, and China to open stores faster than they would
have with sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption. Consequently,
Walmart earned additional profits through these subsidiaries by opening certain of its stores
faster.

26. In or around April 2011, Walmart recognized that the existing anti-corruption
compliance program was not sufficient and hired an international law firm and an international
consulting firm to conduct a global compliance review for the purpose of reviewing and testing
Walmart’s anti-corruption compliance program in various foreign subsidiaries around the world,

including subsidiaries in Mexico, India, Brazil, and China. Despite Walmart’s remediation

A-6
beginning in or around April 2011, India continued to have certain internal control failures that
resulted in hiring certain TPIs without ensuring those TPIs did not make improper payments to
government officials until in or around November 2011, as described below.
Mexico

27, Walmart began operating in Mexico in or around 1991. Walmart grew in Mexico
by acquiring other companies and by opening its own stores through Mexico Subsidiary. Before
Mexico Subsidiary opened a store in Mexico, it had to obtain many licenses and permits from
government departments and agencies. The employees of the government agencies that approved
permits and licenses were “foreign official[s]” as that term is defined in the FCPA, Title 15, .
United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f)(1). In or around September 2005, over a year after he was
separated from the Mexico Subsidiary in or around August 2004, Mexico Subsidiary Attorney
told a senior attorney at Walmart International and an outside attorney hired by Walmart that
when he worked at Mexico Subsidiary, he directed TPIs to make improper payments to
government officials. Mexico Subsidiary did not have sufficient internal accounting controls
related to anti-corruption to ensure that TPIs did not make improper payments to government
officials or that donations made to municipalities and other local governmental entities were
proper and that the goods donated were not being converted to personal use. Although Walmart
learned that both TPIs and donations posed serious corruption risks, Walmart did not implement
internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption sufficient to provide reasonable assurances
that Mexico Subsidiary did not make improper payments to government officials through either
method until in or around April 2011. |

28. From at least in or around 1999 to in or around 2004, Mexico Subsidiary obtained

certain real estate permits and licenses required to open and operate stores by using TPIs. On or

- A-7
about September 21, 2005, Mexico Subsidiary Attorney, who was responsible for obtaining real
estate licenses and permits for Mexico Subsidiary, contacted Walmart and said that when he
worked at Mexico Subsidiary he had overseen a scheme for several prior years in which TPIs
made improper payments to government officials to obtain permits and licenses for Mexico
Subsidiary. He also said that Mexico Subsidiary had paid approximately $6,000,000 to TPIs,
some of which was paid in improper payments to government officials and that in some cases,
Mexico Subsidiary Attorney made the payments himself. In most cases, however, Mexico
Subsidiary Attorney explained that Mexico Subsidiary made improper payments to government
officials through TPIs called “gestores,” who were attorneys and ostensibly provided legal
services but in reality did nothing for Mexico Subsidiary other than make improper payments.
Although Mexico Subsidiary was permitted to use only law firms that were authorized to
represent it and had 11 such law firms, Mexico Subsidiary Attorney said that he used the
gestores, who were not authorized to work for Mexico Subsidiary, to obtain permits and licenses.
Unlike the authorized law firms, the gestores did not have contracts with Mexico Subsidiary,
were not subject to any anti-corruption due diligence, did not include anti-corruption clauses in
their contracts, and did not send Mexico Subsidiary detailed bills or other documents showing
the work they had done. Mexico Subsidiary Attorney stated that several Mexico Subsidiary
executives, including Mexico Subsidiary Executive #1 and Senior Mexico Subsidiary Attorney,
knew about and approved of the scheme, but that he was the only employee of Mexico |
Subsidiary who had any contact with the gestores.

29.  Inor around October 2005, Mexico Subsidiary Attorney explained that the
gestores scheme worked as follows:

a. Mexico Subsidiary would determine which government officials
needed to receive an improper payment to obtain a permit or license. Mexico
Subsidiary Attorney would then tell one of the gestores which official to make an
improper payment to.

b. The gestor would send Mexico Subsidiary Attorney an invoice
with a false justification for the payment, which was usually identified as legal
services.

C. Mexico Subsidiary recorded the gestores’ payments in each store’s
budget as line items for “external services” or “contract services.”

d. Most of the gestores’ invoices included a numeric or alphabetic
code developed by Mexico Subsidiary Attorney and another Mexico Subsidiary
employee specifying why Mexico Subsidiary had made an improper payment to
the official. The codes, referred to as “clave” codes, indicated the improper
advantage that Mexico Subsidiary received in exchange for the improper
payment, including: (1) avoiding a requirement; (2) influence, control, or
knowledge of privileged information known by the government official; and (3)
payments to eliminate fines. Mexico Subsidiary Attorney said that the meanings
of the codes were known only to the gestores, himself, Mexico Subsidiary
Executive #1, and two other Mexico Subsidiary executives.

e. After Mexico Subsidiary Attorney received the invoice from the
gestor, it paid the gestor with a manual check. The gestores kept between 6 to 8
percent of the payment and used the rest of the money to make an improper
payment to the government official.

f. The government official then issued the permit or license for

A-9
Mexico Subsidiary. |

30. Walmart employees knew of the corruption risks associated with obtaining
permits and licenses in Mexico since at least in or around 2004, but did not address those risks
by implementing sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption. For example:

a. In or around October 2005, Mexico Subsidiary Attorney stated that
in or about early 2002, Mexico Subsidiary Attorney told Mexico Subsidiary
Executive #1 several times that Mexico Subsidiary had made improper payments
through gestores to obtain licenses and permits and that Mexico Subsidiary
Executive #1 approved Mexico Subsidiary’s continuing the scheme,

b. In or around November or December 2004, Mexico Subsidiary’s
audit team prepared a draft report evaluating Mexico Subsidiary’s internal
accounting controls related to anti-corruption. The draft report said the gestores
payments and donations made by Mexico Subsidiary to local entities were
“unusual.” The draft report noted internal accounting controls related to anti-
corruption concerns. For instance, it noted two related problems with Mexico
Subsidiary using manual checks to pay external vendors. First, it found that
Mexico Subsidiary’s use of manual checks to pay outside vendors made it
difficult to identify why payments were made. Second, it said that internal
accounting controls applicable to manual checks did not require sufficient
descriptions. In preparing the final version of the internal audit report, senior
Mexico Subsidiary employees in Mexico Subsidiary’s audit team removed the
statement that the payments to gestores were “unusual.”

31. After Walmart employees working in the United States learned of the allegations

A-10
from Mexico Subsidiary Attorney in or around 2005, Walmart sought advice from outside
counsel in Mexico and in the United States. Outside counsel in Mexico interviewed Mexico

\
Subsidiary Attorney multiple times, and. sent memoranda reflecting those interviews to Walmart.
Walmart Senior Attorney #1, Walmart Senior Attorney #2, the same senior attorney at Walmart
International, and other Walmart executives received those reports. Outside counsel in the United
States reviewed the allegations and drafted an investigative plan.

32. Instead of hiring outside counsel to conduct an investigation, Walmart used its
own employees from IAS and its Corporate Security Group, who were not implicated in the
allegations, to perform a limited preliminary inquiry to determine whether the allegations were
credible and whether a full investigation was necessary. The investigators obtained evidence
corroborating some of Mexico Subsidiary Attomey’s allegations.

33. In addition, one Mexico Subsidiary employee told the investigators that, when
Mexico Subsidiary had problems obtaining licenses, it would determine how much it had to pay
and would give a check payable to the municipality to a government official, who would then
give Mexico Subsidiary a receipt. The same employee said that although he was not sure whether
improper payments were made to government officials, Mexico Subsidiary used gestores
“smooth out the road” so that “there would not be any bumps during the request for a license”
and conceded that it was unusual that Mexico Subsidiary paid the gestores when most of the
payments were supported by only one invoice and that no records showed what work the
gestores did, with whom the gestores met, or how many hours the gestores worked.

34. In or around December 2005, Corporate Security and IAS prepared investigation

reports. The Corporate Security report identified potential violations of laws. Also, the Corporate

Security report and IAS report recommended several investigative next steps. Walmart did not

A-11
follow the recommendations.

35. Instead, in or about December 2005 or January 2006, Walmart Senior Attorney #1
and another Walmart executive tasked a senior officer of Mexico Subsidiary and Senior Mexico
Subsidiary Attorney, who Mexico Subsidiary Attorney had alleged knew about the improper
payments scheme, with leading the remainder of the investigation. |

36. Inor around early 2006, as part of Walmart’s investigation into Mexico
Subsidiary Attorney’s allegations of improper payments, Walmart Senior Attorney #1 conducted
a limited interview of Mexico Subsidiary Executive #1, who had by then been promoted to a
senior position at Walmart

37. On or about May 9, 2006, Senior Mexico Subsidiary Attorney wrote his final
report about the gestores investigation. The report stated that no evidence existed to substantiate
that Mexico Subsidiary made unlawful payments to government officials.

38. - Between in or around late 2004 and in or around 2010, as discussed below,
Walmart employees learned about other corruption risks associated with obtaining permits and
licenses and learned of allegations of a risk of improper payments to obtain permits and licenses
in Mexico, but Walmart did not address those risks by implementing sufficient anti-corruption
related internal accounting controls or take remedial actions until in or around April 2011.

39. Although Mexico Subsidiary’ s use of real estate gestores stopped after Mexico _
Subsidiary Attorney was separated from the Company in or around August 2004 and before
Walmart’s 2005 investigation into the gestores allegations, its use of donations to municipalities
and other local governmental entities, already identified as a corruption risk, increased as
discussed below.

40. From in or around 2006 until in or around 2011, Mexico Subsidiary had a practice

A-12
of donating goods and services to municipalities and other local governmental entities. Some of
the goods donated, such as cars, which were valued at approximately $11,000 to $17,000, and
computers, were capable of being converted to personal use. Walmart did not begin to implement
sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption, including those to ensure that
these donations were proper and that the goods donated were not being converted to personal use
until in or around April 2011.

41. Onor about November 19, 2009, Mexico Subsidiary informed Walmart
International that local government officials in Mexico had closed certain Mexico Subsidiary
stores in an attempt to get Mexico Subsidiary to make improper payments to government
officials. Walmart did not investigate this issue or implement sufficient internal accounting
controls related to anti-corruption to provide reasonable assurances that Mexico Subsidiary did
not make improper payments until in or around April 201 1.

India

 

42. In or around late 2005, Walmart began to explore long-term business
opportunities in India and quickly learned that, similar to its operations in Mexico, it would face
corruption risks in India obtaining licenses and permits. Walmart also learned of specific
corruption tisks with India JV Partner. The internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption
that Walmart implemented in India, however, were insufficient to mitigate the risk of corruption.

43, Before Walmart began operating in India, it hired a consulting firm to assess
potential business risks there. The report stated that Walmart would “be targeted by corrupt
individuals and organizations seeking bribes or kickbacks in exchange for favorable business
relationships or the easing of bureaucratic restrictions.” The report also said that corruption would

likely cause Walmart “delays in the processing of permits, licenses and other paperwork.” The

A-13
consulting firm advised that Walmart could mitigate its corruption risk with “[s]trict adherence”
to the FCPA and by establishing “strong internal controls and management oversight.”

44. After Walmart learned of potential corruption concerns related to India JV
Partner, in or around late 2006, one Walmart employee was concemed with the willingness of an
employee of India JV Partner to follow the FCPA and told a Walmart executive in an email
message that the India JV Partner employee had given him a “wink and a nod” when the
employee “brought up transparency and clean transactions relative to the FCPA” and the India
JV Partner employee admitted that “speed payments” were used in the past by the India JV
Partner.

45. Between in or around 2008 and in or around early 2011, Walmart’s audit team in
India conducted at least six reviews of India Wholesale Business. All of those reviews identified
weaknesses in anti-corruption related internal accounting controls that required remediation and
were sent to Walmart executives in the United States and to IAS.

46. Between in or around 2008 and in or around early 2011, one or more Walmart
senior employees in the United States knew or had reason to know that at India Wholesale
Business: certain India Wholesale Business vendors operated without contracts; certain India
Wholesale Business third party contracts lacked standard FCPA provisions: certain India
Wholesale Business employees had failed to sign anti-corruption certifications and there was no
procedure for obtaining those certifications; certain India Wholesale Business disbursements
lacked supporting documents; certain India Wholesale Business employees had not completed
FCPA training; and there was no formal third party due diligence process at India Wholesale
Business. |

47. On or about July 23, 2011, senior Walmart and Walmart International executives
received an anonymous whistleblower allegation stating that an employee of India Wholesale
Business and India Retail Employee #1 were involved in a scheme to make improper payments
to government officials in order to obtain store operating permits and licenses, and that a senior
legal employee of India Wholesale Business knew about the scheme. A senior Walmart
International executive forwarded the whistleblower email to Walmart International’s human
resources department and stated, “[s]eems there are some specifics here that we can check out.”
Over the next two months, some Walmart and Walmart International executives received two
additional emails from the same whistleblower following up on the initial email, but Walmart
never investigated the allegations.

- 48. Despite the audit reports discussing control deficiencies and the whistleblower
report alleging improper payments to government officials, Walmart did not implement and
maintain a system of sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption to address
anti-corruption concerns in India. Because of Walmart’s failure to implement sufficient internal
accounting controls related to anti-corruption, from in or about 2009 through in or about at least
2011, India Wholesale Business and India Retail Business were able to retain TPIs that made
improper payments to government officials in order to obtain store operating permits and

licenses during that period. These improper payments were then recorded in the joint venture’s

99 66. 39 66.

books and records with vague descriptions like “misc fees,” “miscellaneous,” “professional

fees,” “incidental,” and “government fee.”
49. Onor about September 28, 2011, a TPI wrote to India Retail Employee #2 ©
regarding a store as follows: “For settling Trade Non Food License we have to pay Rs.

1800000/- [approx. $36,800] as agreed and committed by yourself and [India Retail Employee

#1] on 19-09- 2011. I am receiving daily several calls for payment in case if we fail to pay then

A-15
there would be a major problem which I am sorry to say we would not be in a position to
protect.”

50. On or about November 24, 2011, the General Counsel for India Retail Business
executed a vendor services agreement with a TPI that lacked standard anti-corruption provisions
and audit rights provisions. Those provisions were removed by an employee of the joint venture
prior to the execution of the contract. Audit reports prepared by IAS in or around November
2008 and in or around March 2011 and circulated to certain employees at Walmart in the United
States had noted the omission of key provisions of Walmart’s anti-corruption standards from its
standard contracts in India.

Brazil

51. - Walmart International executives became aware of corruption risks in Brazil as
early as in or around July 2000. However, Walmart did not implement due diligence procedures
for third parties at Walmart Brazil, undertake risk-based assessments or reviews, or implement
an anti-corruption policy or anti-corruption related controls until in or around 2008.

52. | Onor about November 13, 2008, a Walmart Brazil Business Practices audit report

‘was sent to certain executives of Walmart International. That report did not find instances of
non-compliance, but identified weaknesses in anti-corruption related internal accounting controls
‘that required remediation.

53. In or around December 2008, Walmart issued the 2008 Policy, which included
enhancements to its global anti-corruption policy and procedures guide. The 2008 Policy
provided, among other things, that TPIs could not be retained without a due diligence review.
The 2008 Policy also outlined specific rules for record-keeping regarding TPIs. In or around

mid-2008, Walmart International disseminated these enhancements to Walmart Brazil.

A-16
54. Between in or around 2010 and in or around early 2011, Walmart International
employees continued to receive internal audit reports and memoranda noting weaknesses in anti-
corruption related internal accounting controls at Walmart Brazil that required remediation, some
of which were identified in the 2008 Walmart Brazil internal audit report.

55. From in or around 2008 through in or around early 2011, one or more Walmart
senior employees in the United States knew or had reason to know that at Walmart Brazil:
certain anti-corruption related internal controls were not in place sufficient to ensure that all of
Walmart Brazil’s service contracts were properly kept and stored to enable Walmart Brazil to

“ensure its books, records, and accounts were accurate and fairly reflected its disbursement |
transactions; and a formal third party due diligence process was not implemented at Walmart
Brazil as required.

56.  Asaresult of Walmart’s failure to implement sufficient internal accounting
controls related to anti-corruption at Walmart Brazil despite repeated findings in the internal
audit reports that such anti-corruption related internal accounting controls were lacking, Walmart
Brazil continued to retain and renew contracts with TPIs without conducting the required due
diligence, and improper payments were paid by certain of these TPIs. Specifically, between in or
around 2008 and in or around April 2012, Walmart Brazil engaged and paid a TPI construction
company (“Brazil Construction Company”) a total of approximately $52 million to build eight
Walmart stores in Brazil. Walmart Brazil did not conduct any due diligence on Brazil
Construction Company prior to hiring it in 2008. Later, in or around late 2009, Brazil
Construction Company failed a preliminary round of vendor due diligence. It failed another
round of due diligence in or around April 2012. In or around April 2012, the Walmart Brazil

Ethics and Compliance department informed the Construction and Indirect Sourcing

A-17
Departments at Walmart Brazil that the construction company had failed due diligence “due to
cases of corruption” and that no further contracts were to be signed with the company. No further
‘contracts were signed by Walmart Brazil with Brazil Construction Company. In or around late
2009, the Walmart Brazil Ethics and Compliance Department had no mechanism in place to |
ensure that third parties who failed preliminary due diligence were suspended pending final due
diligence, and in or around late 2009 Walmart Brazil did not ensure that the Brazil Construction
Company was no longer used or paid. In or around 2009, without the knowledge of Walmart
Brazil employees, the Brazil Construction Company made improper payments to government
officials in connection with the construction of two stores in Brazil.

57. From in or around December 2009 through in or around 2010, as construction
neared completion on a Walmart Brazil store, Walmart Brazil directed Brazil Construction
Company to retain Brazil Intermediary as a TP] to obtain operational licenses and permits
needed to open the store on a compressed timeline. But rather than hiring Brazil Intermediary
directly, Walmart Brazil instead amended the contracts with Brazil Construction Company to
include a description of Brazil Intermediary’s work and the cost associated with that work. All of
this occurred despite red flags indicating that Brazil Intermediary was a government employee
and was an individual, not a business with a registered corporate form.

58. Walmart Brazil hired Brazil Intermediary indirectly through Brazil Construction
Company, and through the construction company that worked on the second store, because
Walmart Brazil employees, including a Walmart Brazil executive, knew they could not hire
Brazil Intermediary directly because of several red flags. A Walmart Brazil Government Affairs
employee informed a Walmart Brazil Ethics and Compliance employee that he believed Brazil

Intermediary was a government official and that Walmart Brazil itself was not allowed to hire

A-18
civil servants. Further, a member of Walmart Brazil’s construction department believed that
Walmart Brazil could not hire Brazil Intermediary directly because Brazil Intermediary used to
be a government official and did not have a company. |

59. In or around 2009, Brazil Intermediary made improper payments to government |
inspectors in connection with the construction of a Walmart Brazil store in Brazil. According toa
former employee of Brazil Construction Company that worked on the first store, the former
employee, without the knowledge or awareness of Walmart Brazil, gave Brazil Intermediary
cash in connection with obtaining construction licenses. The former employee did so despite
Brazil Intermediary’s claim to him (also made without the knowledge or awareness of Walmart
Brazil) that some of the money was for “people I have to pay,” which the former employee stated
he understood to mean improper payments to government inspectors. Brazil Intermediary’s
ability to obtain licenses and permits quickly earned Brazil Intermediary the nickname
“sorceress” or “genie” within Walmart Brazil, which an employee described as having an ability
to sort things out like “magic.” |

China

60. Walmart proposed training China Subsidiary’s management about the FCPA in or
around the first quarter of 2003. That training was not held. On or around October 2003, the
International Division of LAS issued an FCPA Compliance Review report for China Subsidiary
which included a finding that China Subsidiary employees had provided gifts with an average
dollar value of less than $20 to government officials to build and maintain relationships with
government officials and help obtain approvals for business licenses.

61. That same year, Walmart’s Audit Committee and other executives, including at

least one Walmart executive who had later learned of the gestores allegations in Mexico in 2005,

A-19
received a summary of the audit. Nonetheless, Walmart did not provide FCPA training to China
Subsidiary personnel until years later and as a result, the problems relating to the provision of
small gifts to government officials were repeatedly noted in subsequent internal audit reports
distributed to certain Walmart executives, including at least one executive who learned of the *
gestores allegations in Mexico in 2005, in the United States until in or around early 2011.

62. Onor about October 18, 2006, China Subsidiary’s audit team issued a China
Subsidiary Business Practices Review report which identified certain FCPA awareness and
training deficiencies. In addition to the reports described above, the China Subsidiary internal
audit team conducted regular Business Practices audits between in or around 2003 and in or
around 2011. The China Subsidiary internal audit team flagged numerous weaknesses in internal
accounting controls related to anti-corruption at China Subsidiary, sometimes repeatedly, but
many of these weaknesses were not addressed. In fact, from in or around April 2007 until in or
around January 2010, Walmart and China Subsidiary failed to address nearly all of the anti- .
corruption related internal controls audit findings. Walmart did not begin to significantly
enhance internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption at China Subsidiary until in or
around April 2011. |

63. Between in or around 2007 and in or around 2010, one or more Walmart senior
employees in the United States knew or had reason to know that at China Subsidiary: certain
third party contracts with China Subsidiary lacked required anti-corruption provisions and some
also lacked documentation of required third party due diligence, approvals, and required FCPA
certifications; certain payments were made by China Subsidiary without required documentation
or approvals; the majority of China Subsidiary department heads surveyed were unaware of the

purpose of the FCPA and were not provided with any formal training on the FCPA or Walmart’s

A-20
anti-corruption policy.

A-21
ATTACHMENT B
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

 

In order to address any deficiencies in its internal accounting controls, compliance
code, policies, and procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, et seq., and other applicable anti-corruption laws, Walmart Inc.
(the “Company”) agrees to continue to conduct, in a manner consistent with all of its obligations
under this Agreement, appropriate reviews of its existing internal accounting controls, policies,

and procedures.

Where necessary and appropriate, the Company agrees to continue to maintain and
enhance existing internal accounting controls, compliance code, policies, and procedures in
order to ensure that it maintains: (a) a system of internal accounting controls related to anti-
corruption designed to ensure that the Company makes and keeps fair and accurate books,
records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-corruption compliance program that includes
policies and procedures designed to detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other applicable
anti-corruption laws including the following elements to the extent they are not already part of
the Company’s existing internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption, anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures:

High-Level Commitment
1. The Company will continue to ensure that its directors and senior management
provide strong, explicit, and visible support and commitment to its corporate policy against
violations of the anti-corruption laws and its compliance code.
Policies and Procedures
2. The Company will continue to develop and promulgate a clearly articulated

and visible corporate policy against violations of the FCPA and other applicable foreign law

B-1
counterparts (collectively, the “anti-corruption laws,”), which policy shall be memorialized in
a written compliance code.

3. The Company will continue to develop and promulgate compliance policies
and procedures designed to reduce the prospect of violations of the anti-corruption laws and
the Company’s compliance code, and the Company will take appropriate measures to
encourage and support the observance of ethics and compliance policies and procedures
against violation of the anti-corruption laws by personnel at all levels of the Company. These
anti-corruption policies and procedures’ shall continue to apply to all directors, officers, and
employees and, where necessary and appropriate, outside parties acting on behalf of the
Company in a foreign jurisdiction, including but not limited to, agents and intermediaries,
consultants, representatives, distributors, teaming partners, contractors and suppliers,
consortia, and joint venture partners (collectively, “agents and business partners”). The
Company shall continue to notify all employees that compliance with the policies and
procedures is the duty of individuals at all levels of the Company. Such policies and

procedures shall address:

a. gifts;
b. hospitality, entertainment, and expenses;
C. customer travel;
d. political contributions;
e. charitable donations and sponsorships;
f. facilitation payments; and

 g. solicitation and extortion.

 
4. The Company will continue to ensure that it has a system of financial and
accounting procedures, including a system of internal accounting controls related to anti-
corruption, reasonably designed to ensure the maintenance of fair and accurate books, records,
and accounts. This system should continue to be designed to provide reasonable assurances
that:

a. transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general
or specific authorization,

b. transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any
other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;

C. access to assets is permitted only in accordance with
management’s general or specific authorization; and

d. the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing
assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

Periodic Risk-Based Review

5. The Company will continue to develop these compliance policies and
procedures on the basis of a periodic risk assessment addressing the individual circumstances
of the Company, in particular the foreign bribery risks facing the Company, including, but not
limited to, its geographical organization, interactions with various types and levels of
government officials, industrial sectors of operation, involvement in joint venture
arrangements, importance of licenses and permits in the Company’s operations, degree of
governmental oversight and inspection, and volume and importance of goods and personnel

clearing through customs and immigration.
6. The Company shall continue to review its anti-corruption compliance policies
and procedures no less than annually and update them as appropriate to ensure their continued
effectiveness, taking into account relevant developments in the field and evolving international
and industry standards.

Proper Oversight and Independence

7. The Company will continue to assign responsibility to one or more senior
corporate executives of the Company for the implementation and oversight of the Company’s
anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures. Such corporate official(s) shall
continue to have the authority to report directly to independent monitoring bodies, including .
internal audit, the Company’s Board of Directors, or any appropriate committee of the Board
of Directors, and shall have an adequate level of autonomy from management as well as
sufficient resources and authority to maintain such autonomy.

Training and Guidance

8. The Company will continue to implement mechanisms designed to ensure that
its anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures are effectively communicated to
all directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business
partners. These mechanisms shall continue to include: (a) periodic training for all directors
and officers, all employees in positions of leadership or trust, positions that require such
training (e.g., internal audit, sales, legal, compliance, finance), or positions that otherwise pose
a corruption risk to the Company, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business
partners; and (b) corresponding certifications by all such directors, officers, employees, agents,
and business partners, certifying compliance with the training requirements.

9. The Company will continue to maintain an effective system for providing
guidance and advice to directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate,
agents and business partners, on complying with the Company’s anti-corruption compliance
code, policies, and procedures, including when they need advice on an urgent basis or in any
foreign jurisdiction in which the Company operates.

Internal Reporting and Investigation

10. The Company will continue to maintain an effective system for internal and,
where possible, confidential reporting by, and protection of, directors, officers, employees,
and, where appropriate, agents and business partners concerning violations of the anti-

- corruption laws or the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures.

11. | The Company will continue to maintain an effective and reliable process with
sufficient resources for responding to, investigating, and documenting allegations of violations
of the anti-corruption laws or the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and
procedures.

Enforcement and Discipline

12. | The Company will continue to implement mechanisms designed to effectively
enforce its compliance code, policies, and procedures, including appropriately incentivizing
compliance and disciplining violations.

13. The Company will continue to institute appropriate disciplinary procedures to
address, among other things, violations of the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s anti-
corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures by the Company’s directors, officers,
and employees. Such procedures should continue to be applied consistently and fairly,
regardless of the position held by, or perceived importance of, the director, officer, or

employee. The Company shall continue to implement procedures to ensure that where
misconduct is discovered, reasonable steps are taken to remedy the harm resulting from such
misconduct, and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to prevent further similar
misconduct, including assessing the internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption,
compliance code, policies, and procedures and making modifications necessary to ensure the
overall anti-corruption compliance program is effective.
Third-Party Relationships

. 14. | The Company will continue to institute appropriate risk-based due diligence
and compliance requirements pertaining to the retention and oversight of all agents and
business partners, including:

a. properly documented due diligence pertaining to the hiring
and appropriate and regular oversight of agents and business partners;

b. informing agents and business partners of the Company’s commitment
to abiding by anti-corruption laws and of the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code,
policies, and procedures; and

C. seeking a reciprocal commitment from agents and business partners.

15. Where necessary and appropriate, the Company will continue to include
standard provisions in agreements, contracts, and renewals thereof with all agents and business
partners that are reasonably calculated to prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws, which
may, depending upon the circumstances, include: (a) anti-corruption representations and
undertakings relating to compliance with the anti-corruption laws; (b) rights to conduct audits
of the books and records of the agent or business partner to ensure compliance with the
foregoing; and (c) rights to’ terminate an agent or business partner as a result of any breach of

the anti-corruption laws, the Company’s compliance code, policies, or procedures, or the
representations and undertakings related to such matters.
Mergers and Acquisitions
16. The Company will continue to have policies and procedures for mergers and
acquisitions requiring that the Company conduct appropriate risk-based due diligence on
potential new business entities, including appropriate FCPA and anti-corruption due diligence
by legal, accounting, and compliance personnel.
| 17. The Company will continue to ensure that the Company’s compliance code,
policies, and procedures regarding the anti-corruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to
newly acquired businesses or entities merged with the Company and will promptly:
a. train the directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners
consistent with Paragraph 8 above on the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s
compliance code, policies, and procedures regarding anti-corruption laws; and
b. where warranted, conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly
acquired or merged businesses as quickly as practicable.
Monitoring and Testing
18. The Company will continue to conduct periodic reviews and testing of its anti-
corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures designed to evaluate and improve their
effectiveness in preventing and detecting violations of anti-corruption laws and the Company’s
anti-corruption code, policies, and procedures, taking into account relevant developments in

the field and evolving international and industry standards.
ATTACHMENT C
INDEPENDENT COMPLIANCE MONITOR

 

The duties and authority of the Independent Compliance Monitor (the “Monitor”), and
the obligations of Walmart Inc. (“Walmart” or the “Company’), on behalf of itself and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, with respect to the Monitor and the United States Department of
Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of Virginia (the “Fraud Section and the Office’), are as described below:

1. The Company retained the Monitor prior to the date on which the Company’s
Non-Prosecution Agreement is executed (the “Agreement Date”) for the purposes of preparing
a written work plan, as described below. The Monitorship, as described below, shall extend
for a period of not less than two years from the Agreement Date (the “Term of the
Monitorship”), unless the Fraud Section and the Office determine, upon a showing by the
Company, that early termination is in the interests of justice. Subject to certain conditions
specified below that would, in the sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the Office, allow for
an extension of the Term of the Monitorship, the Monitor shall be retained until the criteria in
Paragraphs 21-22 below are satisfied or the Agreement expires, whichever occurs first.

Monitor’s Mandate

2. The Monitor’s responsibility is to assess the Company’s compliance with the
terms of the Agreement, consistent with the Corporate Compliance Program described in
Attachment B for the Key Risk Areas in the Monitor Countries and the Home Office as set
forth below, so as to specifically address and reduce the risk of any recurrence of the
Company’s misconduct. Collectively, the Monitor’s responsibility and the scope of the duties »
to be performed by the Monitor, as outlined in this paragraph and as set forth in more detail |
below, make up the “Monitor’s Mandate” and are referred to as such throughout this

C-1
document. During the Term of the Monitorship, the Monitor will assess, in the manner set
forth below, the anti-corruption-related internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption,
record-keeping, and financial reporting policies and procedures of the Company as they relate
to permits and licensing, real estate development and construction (not to include the
Company’s real estate strategic planning process), donations (not to include corporate-level
donations or activity by the Walmart Foundation), and third-party intermediaries (collectively,
the “Key Risk Areas”). The Monitor’s assessment regarding anti-corruption controls in the
Key Risk Areas shall solely extend to four countries in which Walmart operates selected based
on the Monitor’s review of the Company’s fiscal year 2018 international risk assessment
(collectively, the “Monitor Countries”) and to the Company’s Home Office in Bentonville,
Arkansas (the “Home Office”). The Monitor will, as set forth in more detail below: (a) review
anti-corruption policies and procedures and interview relevant anti-corruption compliance
’ personnel and senior management; and (b) conduct on-site visits and walkthroughs of all anti-
corruption processes and analyze financial and other data relevant to the assessment of anti-
corruption programs and controls. In addition, the Monitor will assess the commitment of the
Board of Directors and senior management to the corporate anti-corruption compliance
program described in Attachment B of the Agreement and the Company’s implementation of
the corporate-anti-corruption compliance program for the Key Risk Areas in the Monitor
Countries and the Home Office.
Company ’s Obligations

3. Consistent with the principles set forth in paragraph 2, the Company shall

cooperate fully with the Monitor, and the Monitor shall have the authority to take such

reasonable steps as, in his or her view, may be necessary to achieve the goals of the Monitor’s
Mandate and be fully informed about the Company’s anti-corruption compliance program as it
relates to the Monitor’s Mandate, in accordance with the principles set forth herein and
applicable law. To that end, the Company shall: facilitate the Monitor’s access to the
Company’s non-privileged documents and resources consistent with the Monitor’s Mandate;
not limit such access, except as provided in Paragraphs 5-6; and provide guidance on
applicable local law (such as relevant data protection and labor laws). The Company shall
provide the Monitor with access to all non-privileged information, documents, records,
facilities, and employees, as reasonably requested by the Monitor, that fall within the scope of
the Monitor’s Mandate under the Agreement. The Company shall use its best efforts to
provide the Monitor with access to the Company’s former employees who were involved in the
development or implementation of the Company’s current anti-corruption compliance program

and its current third-party vendors, agents, and consultants.

4, Any disclosure by the Company to the Monitor concerning corrupt payments,
false books and records, and internal accounting control failures shall not relieve the Company
of any otherwise applicable obligation to truthfully disclose such matters to the Department,
pursuant to the Agreement.

Withholding Access

5. The parties agree that no attorney-client relationship shall be formed between the
Company and the Monitor. In the event that the Company seeks to withhold from the Monitor
access to information, documents, records, facilities, or current or former employees of the.

| Company that may be outside the Monitor’s Mandate, may be subject to a claim of attorney-
client privilege or to the attorney work-product doctrine, or where the Company reasonably

believes production would otherwise be inconsistent with applicable law, the Company shall

C-3
work cooperatively with the Monitor to resolve the matter to the satisfaction of the Monitor.

6. If the matter cannot be resolved, at the request of the Monitor, the Company shall
promptly provide written notice to the Monitor and the Fraud Section and the Office. Such
notice shall include a general description of the nature of the information, documents, records,
facilities, or current or former employees that are being withheld, as well as the basis for
withholding access. The Fraud Section and the Office may then consider whether to make a
further request for access to such information, documents, records, facilities, or employees.

Monitor’s Coordination with the Company and Review Methodology

7. In carrying out the Mandate, to the extent appropriate under the circumstances,
the Monitor should coordinate with Company personnel, including in-house counsel,
compliance personnel, and internal auditors, on an ongoing basis. The Monitor shall rely on the
product of the Company’s processes, such as the results of studies, reviews, sampling and
testing methodologies, audits, and analyses conducted by or on behalf of the Company, as well
as the Company’s internal resources (e.g., legal, compliance, anti-corruption financial controls,
and internal audit), which can assist the Monitor in carrying out the Monitor’s Mandate through
increased efficiency and Company-specific expertise.

8. The Monitor’s reviews shall use a risk-based approach, within the Key Risk
Areas and Monitor Countries. The Monitor shall not conduct a comprehensive review of all
business lines, all business activities, or all countries.

9. In undertaking the reviews to carry out the Monitor’s Mandate, the Monitor shall
formulate conclusions regarding the anti-corruption controls for each of the Key Risk Areas,
based on, among other things: (a) inspecting relevant documents regarding the Company’s

current design of anti-corruption policies and procedures; (b) conducting on-site walkthroughs

C-4
of selected anti-corruption systems and procedures of the Company at sample sites within the
Monitor Countries, including internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption, record-
keeping, and internal audit procedures that relate to the Key Risk Areas to understand that the
anti-corruption related internal accounting controls are functioning as designed; (c) meetings
with relevant current and, where appropriate, former directors, officers, employees, business
partners, agents, and other persons relating to the Monitor’s Mandate at mutually convenient
times and places to gain an understanding of their knowledge of the anti-corruption controls;
and (d) reviewing the testing performed by the Company’s anti-corruption compliance and
internal audit functions to assess the effectiveness of the Company’s anti-corruption compliance
program that is included, within the Monitor’s Mandate.

Monitor’s Written Work Plan

10. After consultation with the Company and the Fraud Section and the Office, the
Monitor prepared a written work plan within thirty calendar days of being engaged. Any
disputes between the Company and the Monitor with respect to the written work plan were
decided by the Fraud Section and the Office in its sole discretion.

11. The written work plan identifies with reasonable specificity the activities the
Monitor plans to undertake in execution of the Monitor’s Mandate, including a written request
for documents. The Monitor’s work plan for the review includes such steps as are reasonably
necessary to conduct an effective review in accordance with the Monitor’s Mandate, including
by developing an understanding, to the extent the Monitor deems appropriate, of the facts and
circumstances surrounding any violations that may have occurred before the date of the

Agreement. In developing such understanding the Monitor relied on available information and

documents provided by the Company. The Monitor did not and shall not conduct his or her
own inquiry into the historical events that gave rise to the Agreement.

Initial Review

12. The Initial Review shall commence no later than thirty calendar days from the
Agreement Date (unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the Monitor, and the Fraud Section
and the Office). The Monitor shall complete the Initial Review within two hundred ten calendar
days of the Agreement Date and shall issue a written report (the “Initial Report”) within thirty
calendar days thereafter, setting forth the Monitor’s assessment and, if necessary, making
recommendations reasonably designed to improve the effectiveness of the Company’s program
for ensuring compliance with anti-corruption laws. The Monitor should consult with the
Company concerning his or her findings and recommendations on an ongoing basis and should
consider the Company’s comments and input to the extent the Monitor deems appropriate. The
Initial Report need not recite or describe comprehensively the Company’s history or compliance
policies, procedures and practices, but rather may focus on those areas with respect to which the
Monitor wishes to make recommendations, if any, for improvement or which the Monitor
otherwise concludes merit particular attention. Before finalizing each report, the Monitor may
choose to share a draft of his or her report with the Company. The Monitor shall provide the
final report to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Audit Committee”) and
contemporaneously transmit copies to the Deputy Chief — FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal
Division, U.S. Department of Justice, at 1400 New York Avenue N.W., Bond Building,
Eleventh Floor, Washington, D.C. 20005 and Chief of the Financial Crimes and Public
Corruption Unit, United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia, Justin W.
Williams United States Attorney’s Building, 2100 Jamieson Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22314.

After consultation with the Company, the Monitor may extend the time period for issuance of

C-6
the Initial Report for a brief period of time with prior written approval of the Fraud Section and
the Office.

13. Within one hundred eighty calendar days of receipt of the Initial Report, the
Company shall adopt and implement all recommendations in the report unless, within sixty
calendar days of receiving the Initial Report, the Company notifies in writing the Monitor and
the Fraud Section and the Office of any recommendations that the Company considers unduly
burdensome, inconsistent with applicable law or regulation, impractical, excessively expensive,
outside the scope of the Monitor’s Mandate, or otherwise inadvisable. With respect to any such
recommendation, the Company need not adopt that recommendation within the one hundred
eighty calendar days of receiving the Initial Report but shall propose in writing to the Monitor
and the Fraud Section and the Office an alternative policy, procedure, or system designed to
achieve the same objective or purpose. As to any recommendation on which the Company and
the Monitor do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within
forty-five calendar days after the Company serves the written notice.

14. In the event the Company and the Monitor are unable to agree on an acceptable
alternative proposal, the Company shall promptly consult the Fraud Section and the Office. The
Fraud Section and the Office may consider the Monitor’s recommendation and the Company’s
reasons for not adopting the recommendation in determining whether the Company has fully —
complied with its obligations under the Agreement. Pending such determination, the Company
shall not be required to implement any contested recommendations.

15. With respect to any recommendation that the Monitor determines cannot
reasonably be implemented within one hundred eighty calendar days after receiving the Initial

Report, the Monitor may extend the time period for implementation with prior written approval
of the Fraud Section and the Office.
Follow-Up Review and Assessment

16. Beginning no later than one hundred eighty calendar days after the issuance of
the Initial Report, the Monitor will conduct a Follow-Up Review and Assessment to determine
if the Monitor’s recommendations, if any, have been implemented effectively. The Monitor
shall rely on the Company’s internal audit function in conducting the Follow-Up Review and
Assessment. The testing will address Monitor Countries and will include document review,
interviews, and transaction testing.

17. | The Monitor shall observe the Company’s validation processes and activities
performed by the Company’s Internal Audit group so as to inform his or her own assessment of
the satisfactory completion and implementation of the Monitor’s recommendations from the
Initial Report. In the event that Internal Audit’s validation processes and activities do not
confirm the satisfactory completion and implementation of the Monitor’s recommendations
from the Initial Report, the Monitor may direct Internal Audit to expand or adjust the scope and
plan for any of its processes and activities.

18. Following the Follow-Up Review and Assessment and no later than twenty-one
months after the Agreement Date, the Monitor shall submit a follow-up report (the “Follow-Up
Report”) to the Fraud Section and the Office and to the Audit Committee discussing the
outcome of the Follow-Up Review and Assessment and whether the recommendations have

been implemented effectively.

Certification of Compliance and Termination of the Monitorship
19. Within thirty calendar days of the Monitor submitting the Follow-Up Report and

no later than twenty-two months after the Agreement Date, if the Monitor believes that the

C-8
Company’s anti-corruption compliance program is reasonably designed and implemented to
detect and prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws and is functioning effectively as it
relates to the Key Risk Areas in the Monitor Countries, the Monitor shall submit to the Fraud
Section and the Office a written report (the “Certification Report’) certifying the Company’s
compliance with its anti-corruption compliance obligations under the Agreement and setting
forth an overview of the Company’s remediation efforts to date, including the implementation
status of the Monitor’s recommendations and an assessment of the sustainability of the
Company’s remediation efforts. The Certification Report also should recommend the scope of
the Company’s future self-reporting on its enhanced anti-corruption compliance obligations.
Within thirty calendar days of the Monitor submitting the Certification Report, the Company
shall certify in writing to the Fraud Section and the Office, with a copy to the Monitor, that the
Company has adopted and implemented all of the Monitor’s recommendations in the Initial
Report and the Follow-Up Report. The Monitor or the Company may extend the time period
for issuance of the Certification Report or the Company’s certification, respectively, with prior
written approval of the Fraud Section and the Office.

| 20. At such time as the Fraud Section and the Office approves the Certification
Report and the Company’s certification, the Monitorship shall be terminated and the Company
will be permitted to self-report to the Fraud Section and the Office on its enhanced anti-
corruption compliance obligations for up to one year after the Term of the Monitorship, but in
no event longer than thirty-six months following the Agreement Date. The Fraud Section and
the Office shall be required to make this determination within thirty calendar days of receiving
Walmart’s certification but no later than twenty-four months following the Agreement Date.

The Fraud Section and the Office, however, reserves the right to terminate the Monitorship
absent certification by the Monitor, upon a showing by the Company that termination is,
nevertheless, in the interests of justice.

21. Nothing in the above paragraphs prohibits the Monitor from making a
recommendation to the Fraud Section and the Office at any point during the Term of the
Monitorship, including before issuing the Certification Report, that the Fraud Section and the
Office should terminate the Monitorship before the end of the twenty-four-month term based on
his assessment of the Company’s anti-corruption compliance program as it relates to the Key
Risk Areas in the Monitor Countries. Upon such recommendation by the Monitor, the Fraud
Section and the Office shall determine in its sole discretion whether the Monitorship shall be
terminated early.

22. If permitted to self-report to the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall
thereafter submit to the Fraud Section and the Office a written report sixty calendar days prior
to the end of the Agreement setting forth a complete description of its remediation efforts to
date, its proposals to improve the Company’s internal accounting controls, policies, and
procedures for ensuring compliance with the anti-corruption laws, and the proposed scope of
the subsequent reviews, as these items relate to the Key Risk Areas. The report shall be
transmitted to the Deputy Chief — FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S.
Department of Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, N.W., Bond Building, Eleventh Floor,
Washington, D.C. 20005 and Chief of the Financial Crimes and Public Corruption Unit, United
States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia, Justin W. Williams United States
Attorney’s Building, 2100 Jamieson Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22314. The Company may
extend the time period for issuance of the self-report with prior written approval of the Fraud

Section and the Office.

C-10
Extension of the T erm of the Monitorship

23. — If, however, at the conclusion of the thirty calendar-day period following the
receipt of Walmart’s certification but no later than twenty-four months following the |
Agreement Date, the Fraud Section and the Office concludes that the Company has not by that
time successfully satisfied its anti-corruption compliance obligations under the Agreement, the
Term of the Monitorship shall be extended for up to one year only as it relates to the area or
areas within the scope of the Monitor’s Mandate that the Fraud Section and the Office
determines have not been adequately remediated by the Company in response to the Monitor’s
recommendations.

24. Under such circumstances, the Monitor shall commence a follow-up review no
later than sixty calendar days after the Fraud Section and the Office concludes that the
Company has not successfully satisfied its anti-corruption compliance obligations under the
Agreement (unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the Monitor, and the Fraud Section and
the Office). The Monitor shall issue a written follow-up report within one hundred eighty
calendar days of commencing the follow-up review in the same fashion as set forth in Paragraph
12 with respect to the Initial Review. A determination to terminate the Monitorship shall then

be made in accordance with Paragraphs 21-22.

Monitor’s Discovery of Potential or Actual Misconduct
25. (a) Except as set forth below in sub-paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), should the
Monitor discover during the course of his or her engagement that:
° improper payments or anything else of value may have been offered,
promised, made, or authorized by any entity or person within the Company or any entity

or person working, directly or indirectly, for or on behalf of the Company; or

C-11
° the Company may have maintained false books, records or accounts;
(collectively, “Potential Misconduct”), the Monitor shall immediately report the
Potential Misconduct to the Company’s General Counsel, Global Chief Ethics &
Compliance Officer, and/or the Audit Committee for further action, unless the Potential
| Misconduct was already so disclosed. The Monitor also may report Potential
Misconduct to the Fraud Section and the Office at any time, and shall report Potential
Misconduct to the Fraud Section and the Office when it requests the information. |
(b) In some instances, the Monitor should immediately report Potential
Misconduct to the Fraud Section and the Office first and, after consultation with the Fraud
Section and the Office, to the Company. The presence of any of the following factors
militates in favor of reporting Potential Misconduct to the Fraud Section and the Office first
and then to the Company, namely, where the Potential Misconduct: (1) poses a risk to public
health or safety or the environment; (2) involves senior management of the Company; (3)
involves obstruction of justice; or (4) otherwise poses a substantial risk of harm. |
(c) If the Monitor believes that any Potential Misconduct actually occurred or may
constitute a criminal or regulatory violation (“Actual Misconduct”), the Monitor shall
immediately report the Actual Misconduct to the Fraud Section and the Office. When the
Monitor discovers Actual Misconduct, the Monitor shall disclose the Actual Misconduct first to
the Fraud Section and the Office. Then, after consultation with the Fraud Section and the
Office, the Monitor shall disclose the Actual Misconduct to the General Counsel, Global Chief
Ethics & Compliance Officer, and/or the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
(a) The Monitor shall address in his or her reports the appropriateness of the

Company’s response to disclosed Potential Misconduct or Actual Misconduct, whether

C-12
previously disclosed to the Fraud Section and the Office or not. Further, if the Company or any
entity or person working directly or indirectly for or on behalf of the Company withholds
information necessary for the performance of the Monitor’s responsibilities and the Monitor
believes that such withholding is without just cause, the Monitor shall also immediately disclose
that fact to the Fraud Section and the Office and address the Company’s failure to disclose the
necessary information in his or her reports.

(e) The Company nor anyone acting on its behalf shall take any action to
retaliate against the Monitor for any such disclosures or for any other reason.

Meetings During Pendency of Monitorship

26. | The Monitor shall meet with the Fraud Section and the Office within thirty
calendar days after providing each report to the Fraud Section and the Office to discuss the
report, to be followed by a meeting between the Fraud Section and the Office, the Monitor, and
the Company.

27. At least annually, and more frequently if appropriate, representatives from the
Company and the Fraud Section and the Office will meet together to discuss the Monitorship
and any suggestions, comments, or improvements the Company may wish to discuss with or
propose to the Fraud Section and the Office, including with respect to the scope or costs of the
Monitorship.

Contemplated Confidentiality of Monitor’s Reports

28. The reports will likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and
competitive business information. Moreover, public disclosure of the reports could discourage
cooperation or impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the

objectives of the Monitorship. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the contents

C-13
thereof aré intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except: as otherwise agreed to by
the parties in writing, or to the extent that the Fraud Section and the Office determines in its
sole discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Fraud Section and the Office’s

discharge of its duties and responsibilities, or as otherwise required by law.

C-14
