 

LS TRAp,

(— RECEIVED CFTC \
“by

AAD

   

  

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AE
Before the oS

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION Office of Proceedings
Proceedings Clerk

 

 

 

\ 1:11 pm, Mar 16, ay,

In the Matter of:

)
)
)
Equinox Fund Management, ) CFTC Docket No. 16 _-99
LLC, )

)

)

Respondent.

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”) has reason to
believe that Equinox Fund Management, LLC (“Equinox” or “Respondent”) violated the
Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act”) and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”). Therefore,
the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the
violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order should be issued imposing
remedial sanctions.

II.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, except as to the
Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are
admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to
Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and acknowledges service of this Order. '

 

' Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party; provided, however, that Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce
the terms of this Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
Il.

The Commission finds the following:

A. Summary

These proceedings arise from material misstatements and omissions made by registered
commodity pool operator (“CPO”) Equinox in the operation of the multi-advisor commodity
pool, the Frontier Fund (“TFF”). TFF is a managed futures fund structured as a statutory trust
offering units of beneficial interest in several separate and distinct series, each with a specific
trading strategy. As the CPO for TFF, Equinox was responsible for preparing the disclosures
made in the Disclosure Documents for the pool (“Disclosure Documents”) and Annual Reports
to pool participants concerning TFF. TFF’s offerings of units in the fund were publicly registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and Equinox was responsible for the
disclosures made in TFF’s registration statements and periodic filings with the SEC. This action
concerns the following disclosures:

a. From 2004 through March 2011, Disclosure Documents for TFF disclosed that
Equinox charged management fees based upon the net asset value (“NAV”) (ie. total
assets, less total liabilities) of each series, when Equinox actually charged TFF
management fees based upon the value of the notional assets it was managing in each
series (i.e., the invested amount plus leverage used in the underlying investments;
notional assets refers to the trading level of the aggregate attributable assets that
Commodity Trading Advisors (“CTAs”) traded on behalf of each series) (“Notional
Trading Value”), thereby charging TFF $5.4 million more than what would have been
charged based upon NAV;

b. The 2010 Annual Report for TFF disclosed that its methodology of valuing
certain options was “corroborated by weekly counterparty settlement values,” when in
fact, Equinox received information during that timeframe showing that its valuation of
certain options was materially higher than the counterparty’s indicative settlement
valuations; and

c. Quarterly reports to pool participants were misleading in that: (1) a report for
the second quarter of 2011 failed to disclose as a material subsequent event a series’ early
termination of an option at a valuation that was materially different than the value that
had been recorded for that option and (2) a report for the third quarter of 2011 disclosed
that an option had been transferred between two series in accordance with TFF’s
valuation policies, when, in reality, Equinox transferred the option using a valuation
methodology that differed from the methodology used to value substantially identical
options held by other TFF series.

 

findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other
proceeding.
Based upon this conduct, Equinox violated Section 40(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 60(1)(B), and
Commission Regulations 4.22(c) and 4.24(d) and (i), 17 C.F.R. §§ 4.22(c) and 4.24(d) and (i)
(2015).

B. Respondent

Equinox Fund Management, LLC (“Equinox”), a Delaware limited liability company
headquartered in Denver, Colorado, is an asset management firm that specializes in managed
futures. Equinox has been registered as a commodity pool operator with the CFTC since 2003; it
is also registered as an investment adviser with the SEC. Currently, as CPO to TFF, Equinox
manages approximately $268 million of assets. Equinox is responsible for the preparation and
filing of TFF’s Disclosure Documents and Annual Reports and its SEC periodic filings.

Cc. Other Relevant Entity

The Frontier Fund (“TFF”), a Delaware statutory trust launched in 2004, is a
commodity pool. Equinox serves as TFF’s CPO and managing owner. TFF operates as a series
trust, with numerous series engaged in separate trading strategies. The assets of each TFF series
are valued and accounted for separately, and a daily NAV is calculated for each series. The
offering of units for each TFF series was registered under the Securities Act. During the relevant
period (which is primarily from 2009 through 2011), TFF had approximately 15,000 to 20,000
investors and between $800 million and $1 billion in net assets.

D. Facts

1. Equinox Overcharged Management Fees by Using a Methodology that
Contradicted Disclosures to Pool Participants

As the managing owner of TFF, Equinox charged each TFF series various fees, including
a management fee. The management fees compensated Equinox for its management of the
investments and were also used to pay CTAs their contractual fee. From the inception of various
TFF series through March 2011, as CPO for TFF, Equinox prepared several Disclosure
Documents for TFF (and amendments thereto), which were provided to prospective participants
via mail or other means of interstate commerce. TFF’s Disclosure Documents consistently
disclosed that Equinox charged management fees (ranging from 0.50% to 3.5%) based upon each
series’ NAV. For example, TFF’s Disclosure Document, in the form of a prospectus dated
February 4, 2009, disclosed that “[e]ach Series will pay to the Managing Owner a monthly
management fee equal to a certain percentage of each Series’ Net Asset Value.” TFF’s
disclosures that Equinox charged management fees as a percentage of each series’ NAV were
repeated throughout the Disclosure Documents, including in sections regarding “fees and
expenses,” “past performance,” “charges to be paid by the trust,” as well as the respective series’
fee tables and appendices, including the 12 month projected break-even analysis for each series.
However, contrary to the disclosures in TFF’s Disclosure Documents, Equinox charged
management fees based on the Notional Trading Value of the assets it was managing in each
series.

In early March 2011, TFF’s independent auditors questioned whether Equinox’s
assessment of management fees based on notional assets in each TFF series comported with
TFF’s existing disclosures that management fees were calculated based on each series’ NAV.
Thereafter, in the Disclosure Document and annual report to pool participants prepared in April
2011, Equinox modified its disclosures regarding management fees, including adding a
clarifying footnote to the break-even analysis, to disclose that Equinox charged management fees
based on notional assets.

Equinox did not refund to TFF the additional management fees it had collected by
charging on notional assets prior to the modification of its disclosures. From the inception of
various TFF series through March 2011, Equinox obtained $5,404,004 in additional management
fees by charging TFF series on notional assets, as opposed to NAV as had been previously
represented.

2 Disclosures Regarding the Methodology of Valuing Certain Derivatives
Were Misleading

As the CPO of TFF, Equinox allocated TFF series’ funds to CTAs engaged in various
trading strategies. In some instances, Equinox determined that it was not feasible for TFF series
to make direct investments with desired CTAs. Therefore, Equinox obtained access to those
CTAs’ returns by investing in customized derivatives, including total return swaps and options,
that used the desired CTAs’ performance as the reference assets.

From October 2007 through May 2009, four TFF series, through their investments in
various subsidiary trading companies, first began investing in separate European OTC call
options (the “Options”), all of which were written by the same counterparty (the “Option
Counterparty”). The reference asset of each respective Option was a different private managed
futures fund managed by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Options Counterparty. The Options
included:

a. The RCW Option (held by TFF’s Balanced Series);
b. The FX Enhanced Option (held by TFF’s Currency Series);
c. The RCW2 Option (held by TFF’s Diversified Series); and
d. The Solon Option (held by TFF’s Dynamic Series).

The TFF Disclosure Documents provided that Equinox was responsible for the daily
calculations of NAV and as a result was responsible for determining the valuation of all
investments held by each TFF series. The Options did not have readily determinable fair values
because they were not traded on an open market and did not have publicly-reported prices.
Therefore, Equinox treated the Options held by TFF as Level Three assets, pursuant to
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 820, Fair Value Measurement. From the respective
dates of purchase through the third quarter of 2010, Equinox valued the Options using its internal
valuation methodology.

During the fourth quarter of 2010, Equinox revised its valuation methodology with
respect to the Options to account for a valuation range provided by an outside valuation agent
(“Valuation Agent”). Specifically, for each Option, Equinox obtained a valuation range from its
Valuation Agent, then compared it to the valuation estimated using its own methodology. If
Equinox’s internal valuation fell within the Valuation Agent’s range, Equinox used the midpoint
of the Valuation Agent’s range. If its valuation fell outside of the range, then Equinox valued the
Option at the closest bound of the Valuation Agent’s range (either the upper or lower bound).
This valuation methodology remained in effect through July 2011.

In its Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2010 and quarterly reports for the
first and second quarters of 2011, each of which was provided to pool participants via U.S. mail
or other means of interstate commerce, TFF disclosed, in the notes to its financial statements,
that certain derivatives, including the Options, were “reported at fair value based upon daily
valuations provided by a third party pricing service and corroborated by weekly counterparty
settlement values” (emphasis added). Equinox’s internal valuation methodology used certain
pricing information provided on a weekly basis by a subsidiary of the Option Counterparty
concerning the net asset value of reference assets of the respective Options. However, TFF’s
disclosure that its valuations were “corroborated by weekly counterparty settlement values” was
misleading because throughout this timeframe, Equinox received, but failed to consider, three
types of information concerning the Option Counterparty’s pricing of the Options which was
materially different than the valuation of the Options as reported by TFF.

First, on each business day from late June 2009 through early May 2011, the Option
Counterparty provided Equinox with a “Products Valuation” report that included indicative bid
and ask prices for the RCW2 and Solon Options that were materially different from the
valuations Equinox had assigned to these Options.

Second, in connection with the audit of each TFF series’ financial statements for year-end
2010, the Option Counterparty provided audit confirmations for each of the Options as of
December 31, 2010 showing indicative valuations that were materially different from Equinox’s
valuations. TFF’s independent auditor in turn provided these counterparty audit confirmations to
Equinox.

Third, between June 2009 and May 2011, various TFF series engaged in seven additional
transactions with the Option Counterparty to increase or decrease the amount invested in the
RCW, RCW2 and Solon Options (“Additional Transactions”). In each of the Additional
Transactions, the parties used the Option Counterparty’s bid or ask prices to increase or decrease
the amounts invested in the Options, and at least in certain instances, these prices were materially
different than what was reflected in TFF’s Options valuations. Furthermore, the bid or ask prices
for the Additional Transactions matched pricing contained in the Products Valuation reports that
Equinox routinely received from the Option Counterparty.
The discrepancy between Equinox’s valuations and pricing information provided to
Equinox by the Option Counterparty demonstrated that, contrary to TFF’s disclosures, its
valuations were not corroborated by weekly counterparty settlement values between December
31, 2010 and June 30, 2011. Instead, on multiple occasions, TFF’s reported valuation for the
Options was substantially higher than the Option Counterparty’s valuation of each of the
Options.

3. Certain Quarterly Reports in 2011 Were Misleading

The quarterly report to TFF pool participants for the period ending June 30, 2011 failed
to disclose a material subsequent event pursuant to ASC 855, which requires SEC filers to
disclose material subsequent events if they are “of such a nature that they must be disclosed to
keep the financial statements from being misleading.” Specifically, ASC 855 requires the
disclosure of the nature of the material subsequent event, and “an estimate of its financial effect,
or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made.” Paragraph ASC 855-10-55-2 lists various
examples of material subsequent events, including “[c]hanges in the fair value of assets or
liabilities (financial or nonfinancial) or foreign exchange rates after the balance sheet date but
before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued.”

In July 2011, shortly after the close of the reporting period ending June 30, 2011, TFF’s
Currency Series liquidated the FX Enhanced Option and received an amount materially lower
than the recorded value. The FX Enhanced Option constituted a significant portion of the
Currency Series’ assets. TFF’s Currency Series failed to disclose both the liquidation of the FX
Enhanced Option and the estimated financial effect, despite the fact that both were known prior
to the issuance of the Currency Series’ June 30, 2011 financial statements. TFF’s Currency
Series’ liquidation of the FX Enhanced Option on July 8, 2011 took place after the reporting
period ended June 30, 2011, but prior to the publication of its quarterly report on August 12,
2011.

Also in July 2011, the Solon Option was transferred from the Dynamic Series to the
Balanced Series.

The Dynamic Series was structured such that its investment returns were almost entirely
driven by its investment in the Solon Option.

One of TFF’s larger series, the Balanced Series, held an inter-series investment in the
Dynamic Series, such that the Balanced Series was entitled to share in 94% of the profits or
losses of the Dynamic Series.

In July 2011, the early liquidation of the FX Enhanced Option caused Equinox to
undertake an expedited re-assessment of: (i) the appropriate valuation for the remaining three
Options still held by other TFF series (including the Dynamic Series); and (ii) the potential
impact of write-downs of the valuations of the three Options on the NAVs of the series that held
the Options. Specifically, when Equinox liquidated the FX Enhanced Option on July 8, 2011, the
Option Counterparty paid only $3,699,000 at liquidation even though the Currency Series had
the FX Enhanced Option valued at $5,029,547, a difference of $1,330,547.
On July 12, 2011, Equinox requested pricing for the remaining three Options, and the
Option Counterparty provided indicative settlement valuations later that day showing that TFF’s
valuations of the Options were substantially higher than the Option Counterparty’s settlement
valuations as of June 30, 2011. Following receipt of this information, Equinox calculated that
writing down the Solon Option to the Valuation Agent’s lower bound would have a material
impact on the Dynamic Series’ NAV.

By July 15, 2011, Equinox had decided to write-down the valuation of the RCW and
RCW2 Options to the Valuation Agent’s lower bound. On July 15, 2011, Equinox also
announced the immediate closure of the Dynamic Series, with a forced redemption of all
investors at that day’s NAV. However, the Dynamic Series did not liquidate the Solon Option to
make redemptions. Instead, on July 15, 2011, Equinox transferred ownership of the Solon Option
from the Dynamic Series to the Balanced Series.

On the date of the transfer of the Solon Option, Equinox did not adjust the valuation in
any way to account for the Option Counterparty’s materially different indicative settlement
valuations. Instead, contrary to its valuation policy, Equinox transferred the Solon Option using
the midpoint of the Valuation Agent’s range, $10,123,315. However, the next business day after
the inter-series transfer, the Balanced Series wrote down the valuation of the Solon Option to the
lower bound of the Valuation Agent’s range, $9,065,685. The impact of this write-down was
absorbed by the Balanced Series, a significantly larger series.

During the third quarter of 2011, Equinox ultimately decided to use the Option
Counterparty’s indicative settlement valuations to value the Solon Option and the other two
remaining Options.

A quarterly report to pool participants for the third quarter of 2011 contained the
following disclosure regarding the inter-series transfer of the Solon Option:

“On July 18, 2011, the Balanced Series reduced its inter-series advance to the
Dynamic Series in exchange for ownership in a total return swap contract in the
amount of $27,379,284 which approximated fair value in accordance with the
Trust’s valuation policies at the time of transfer.”

This disclosure was misleading because by the time the report for the third quarter of
2011 was issued, Equinox knew or should have known that the Solon Option had not been
transferred “in accordance with the Trust’s valuation policies.” Those policies required that
Equinox take into account, among other things, “whether the same or similar securities are held
by other Funds managed by Equinox and the method used to price the security in those funds.”

By making an exception and transferring the Solon Option at the Valuation Agent’s
midpoint instead of its lower bound, Equinox failed to take into account information regarding
the same or similar securities (the RCW and RCW2 Options) held by other TFF series.
Furthermore, Equinox had no other information to justify treating the Solon Option differently,
nor did Equinox learn of any new information as of July 18, 2011 (the next business day after
July 15, 2011) prompting the write-down of the Solon Option that took place on that date.
Equinox’s delay in writing down the Solon Option to the Valuation Agent’s lower bound caused
the Solon Option not to be transferred in accordance with Trust valuation policies.

Equinox made a voluntary reimbursement to the Balanced Series to compensate its
investors for the portion of the subsequent write down of the valuation of the Solon Option
attributable to the Dynamic Series.

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Respondent Violated Section 4o0(1 of the Act

Section 40(1)(B) of the Act prohibits CPOs from engaging, by use of the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly in “any transaction,
practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or participant
or prospective client or participant.” 7 U.S.C. § 60(1)(B). Scienter is not required to prove a
violation of Section 40(1)(B). See In re Slusser, [1998-1999 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L.
Rep. (CCH) 927,701 at 48,315 (CFTC July 19, 1999), aff'd in relevant part, Slusser v. CFTC,
210 F.3d 783 (7th Cir. 2000).

During the relevant period, as set forth above, Equinox made several misleading
disclosures in Disclosure Documents and reports distributed to pool participants and prospective
participants. Therefore, Equinox violated Section 40(1)(B) of the Act.

B. Respondent Violated Commission Regulation 4.24(d) and (i)

Pursuant to Regulation 4.21 all CPOs are required to file with NFA and deliver to
prospective pool participants a Disclosure Document. 17 C.F.R. § 4.21. Regulation 4.24(d)
requires that, in the forefront of the Disclosure Document, a CPO must include disclosure of the
break-even point per unit of initial investment. 17 C.F.R. § 4.24(d). Regulation 4.24(i) requires
that the Disclosure Document must include “a complete description of each fee, commission and
other expense which the commodity pool operator knows or should know has been incurred by
the pool for its preceding fiscal year and is expected to be incurred by the pool in its current
fiscal year, including . . . management fees.” Regulation 4.24(i)(3) further specifies, “where any
fee is determined by reference to a base amount, including, but not limited to, ‘net assets’ . . . the
[CPO] must explain how such base amount will be calculated, in a manner consistent with
calculation of the break-even point.” 17 C.F.R. § 4.24(1).

As set forth above, Equinox’s Disclosure Documents, including its break-even analysis,
reflected that management fees would be calculated based on NAV and did not disclose that the
fees were actually calculated based on the Notional Trading Value of the funds. Accordingly,
Equinox violated Regulations 4.24(d) and 4.24(i).

C. Respondent Violated Commission Regulation 4.22(c)

Regulation 4.22(c) requires that a CPO must distribute an Annual Report to each
participant and electronically submit a copy of the Annual Report to NFA. 17 C.F.R. § 4.22(c).
Regulation 4.22(c)(5) specifies that the Annual report must contain “[a]ppropriate footnote
disclosure and such further material information as may be necessary to make the required
statements not misleading.”

As set forth above, Equinox’s 2010 Annual Report included certain disclosures in the
notes to its financial statements regarding its valuation methodology which were misleading.
Accordingly, Equinox violated Regulation 4.22(c).

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, Equinox
Fund Management, LLC violated Section 40(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 60(1)(B), and
Commission Regulations 4.22 and 4.24, 17 C.F.R. §§ 4.22, 4.24 (2015).

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted an Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the findings
and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
1. the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. a hearing;
3. all post-hearing procedures;
4. judicial review by any court;

5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2015), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding;
7. any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1. makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Section 40(1)(B) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 60(1)(B) and Commission Regulations 4.22 and 4.24,
17 C.F.R. §§ 4.22, 4.24;

2. orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Section 40(1)(B) of the Act, ,
7 U.S.C. § 60(1)(B) and Commission Regulations 4.22 and 4.24, 17 C.F.R. §§
4.22, 4.24;

3. orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) within ninety (90) days of the date of entry of
this Order; and

4. orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this
Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept Respondent’s Offer.
VII.
ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Section 40(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §
60(1)(B) and Commission Regulations 4.22 and 4.24, 17 C.F.R. §§ 4.22, 4.24.

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000) within ninety (90) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “CMP
Obligation”). If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ninety (90) days of the date
of entry of this Order, then post-judgement interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this order and shall be determined by using the Treasury
Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961

10
(2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to
be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Disgorgement: Respondent shall pay disgorgement in the amount of five million
four hundred and four thousand and four dollars ($5,404,004) (“Disgorgement
Obligation”). Respondent shall make an initial payment of $4,500,000 within
ninety (90) days of the earlier of (1) the date of entry of this Order or (2) the date
of entry of the Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8a of The Securities Act Of 1933, Section 21c Of
The Securities Exchange Act Of 1934, And Section 203(E) Of The Investment
Advisers Act Of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and A
Cease-And-Desist captioned “In the matter of Equinox Fund Management, LLC”
promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC Order”).
Respondent shal] pay the balance of the Disgorgement Obligation by September
30, 2016.

Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the Disgorgement Obligation beginning on
the date payment is due and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate

11
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Payment, up to the amount of five million four hundred and four thousand and
four dollars ($5,404,004), made by the Respondent in satisfaction of any
disgorgement entered in the SEC Order (including payments to an escrow account
as provided in the SEC Order) shall offset (dollar for dollar) Respondent’s
Disgorgement Obligation identified herein.

Any payment of Disgorgement Obligations to the CFTC hereunder shall be made
by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank
cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be made other than by
electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact
Nikki Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment
instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall
accompany payment of the Disgorgement Obligation with a cover letter that
identifies the paying Respondent and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the
cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and
assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control shall take any action or
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or
conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this
Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision
shall affect Respondent’s: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal
positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondent and its successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to
ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under its authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

12
3. Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by
the Commission of partial payment of Respondent’s Disgorgement Obligation or
CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further
payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to
compel payment of any remaining balance.

4, Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full its
Disgorgement Obligation and CMP Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order,
Respondent shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of
any change to its telephone number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar
days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.
By the Commission.

Dt | Pelt

Christopher J. Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: March 16, 2016

13
