#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, June 20, 2019

Walmart Inc. and Brazil-Based Subsidiary Agree to Pay $137 Million to Resolve Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act Case

Walmart Inc. (Walmart), a U.S.-based multinational retailer and its wholly owned Brazilian subsidiary, WMT Brasilia S.a.r.l. (WMT Brasilia), have
agreed to pay a combined criminal penalty of $137 million to resolve the government’s investigation into violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA). WMT Brasilia pleaded guilty today in connection with the resolution.

Assistant Attorney General Brian A. Benczkowski of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney G. Zachary Terwilliger of the
Eastern District of Virginia, Assistant Director Robert Johnson of the FBI’s Criminal Investigative Division and Special Agent in Charge Kelly
Jackson of IRS Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-Cl) Washington, D.C. office made the announcement.

“Walmart profited from rapid international expansion, but in doing so chose not to take necessary steps to avoid corruption,” said Assistant
Attorney General Benczkowski. “In numerous instances, senior Walmart employees knew of failures of its anti-corruption-related internal
controls involving foreign subsidiaries, and yet Walmart failed for years to implement sufficient controls comporting with U.S. criminal laws. As
today’s resolution shows, even the largest of U.S. companies operating abroad are bound by U.S. laws, and the Department of Justice will
continue to aggressively investigate and prosecute foreign corruption.”

“Walmart violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act because it failed to implement the internal controls necessary to ferret out corrupt
conduct,” said U.S. Attorney Terwilliger. “For more than a decade, Walmart experienced exponential international growth but failed to create
safeguards to protect against corruption risks in various countries. This resolution is the result of several years of steadfast work by the
prosecutors and our law enforcement partners at the FBI and IRS-Cl.”

“The FBI will hold corporations responsible when they turn a blind eye to corruption," said FBI Assistant Director Johnson. "If there is evidence of
violations of FCPA, we will investigate. No corporation, no matter how large, is above the law."

“Walmart’s guilty plea is another step in IRS-Cl’s ongoing effort to pursue corporations that engage in corruption that prevents fair competition
around the world,” said IRS-Cl Special Agent in Charge Jackson. “Through our efforts, we delved through layers of transactions and uncovered
the bribery of foreign officials. Today’s announcement is a statement that no company, even one as large as Walmart, is above the law.”

According to Walmart’s admissions, from 2000 until 2011, certain Walmart personnel responsible for implementing and maintaining the
company’s internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption were aware of certain failures involving these controls, including relating to
potentially improper payments to government officials in certain Walmart foreign subsidiaries, but nevertheless failed to implement sufficient
controls that, among other things, would have ensured: (a) that sufficient anti-corruption-related due diligence was conducted on all third-party
intermediaries (TPIs) who interacted with foreign officials; (b) that sufficient anti-corruption-related internal accounting controls concerning
payments to TPls existed; (c) that proof was required that TPIls had performed services before Walmart paid them; (d) that TPls had written
contracts that included anti-corruption clauses; (e) that donations ostensibly made to foreign government agencies were not converted to
personal use by foreign officials; and (f) that policies covering gifts, travel and entertainment sufficiently addressed giving things of value to
foreign officials and were implemented. Even though senior Walmart personnel responsible for implementing and maintaining the company’s
internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption knew of these issues, Walmart did not begin to change its internal accounting controls
related to anti-corruption to comply with U.S. criminal laws until 2011.

The internal controls failures allowed Walmart foreign subsidiaries in Mexico, India, Brazil and China to hire TPls without establishing sufficient
controls to prevent those TPls from making improper payments to government officials in order to obtain store permits and licenses. Ina
number of instances, insufficiencies in Walmart’s anti-corruption-related internal accounting controls in these foreign subsidiaries were reported
to senior Walmart employees and executives. The internal control failures allowed the foreign subsidiaries in Mexico, India, Brazil and China to
open stores faster than they would have with sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption. Consequently, Walmart earned
additional profits through these subsidiaries by opening some of its stores faster.

In Mexico, a former attorney for Walmart’s local subsidiary reported to Walmart in 2005 that he had overseen a scheme for several years prior
in which TPls made improper payments to government officials to obtain permits and licenses for the subsidiary and that several executives at
the subsidiary knew of and approved of the scheme. Most of the TPI invoices included a code specifying why the subsidiary had made the
improper payment, including: (1) avoiding a requirement; (2) influence, control or knowledge of privileged information known by the
government official; and (3) payments to eliminate fines.

In India, because of Walmart’s failure to implement sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption, from 2009 until 2011,
Walmart’s operations there were able to retain TPls that made improper payments to government officials in order to obtain store operating
permits and licenses. These improper payments were then falsely recorded in Walmart’s joint venture’s books and records with vague
descriptions like “misc fees,” “miscellaneous,” “professional fees,” “i

moe moe

incidental” and “government fee.”

In Brazil, as a result of Walmart’s failure to implement sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption at its subsidiary, Walmart
Brazil, despite repeated findings in internal audit reports that such controls were lacking, Walmart Brazil continued to retain and renew
contracts with TPls without conducting the required due diligence. Improper payments were in fact paid by some of these TPIs, including a
construction company that made improper payments to government officials in connection with the construction of two Walmart Brazil stores in
2009 without the knowledge of Walmart Brazil. Walmart Brazil indirectly hired a TPI whose ability to obtain licenses and permits quickly earned
her the nickname “sorceress” or “genie” within Walmart Brazil. Walmart Brazil employees, including a Walmart Brazil executive, knew they
could not hire the intermediary directly because of several red flags. In 2009, the TP! made improper payments to government inspectors in
connection with the construction of a Walmart Brazil store without the knowledge of Walmart Brazil. WMT Brasilia was a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Walmart and was a majority-owner of Walmart Brazil, Walmart’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Brazil, and the majority-owner of retail
stores operating as Walmart Brazil.

In China, Walmart’s local subsidiary’s internal audit team flagged numerous weaknesses in internal accounting controls related to anti-
corruption at the subsidiary between 2003 and 2011, sometimes repeatedly, but many of these weaknesses were not addressed. In fact, from
2007 until early 2010, Walmart and the subsidiary failed to address nearly all of the anti-corruption-related internal controls audit findings.

Walmart entered into a three-year non-prosecution agreement and agreed to retain an independent corporate compliance monitor for two
years. The $137 million penalty reflects a 20 percent reduction off the bottom of the applicable U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range for the
portion of the penalty applicable to conduct in Mexico and 25 percent for the portion applicable to the conduct in Brazil, China and India.
Walmart fully cooperated with the investigation in Brazil, China and India. Walmart cooperated with the investigation in Mexico, but did not
timely provide documents and information to the government and did not de-conflict with the government’s request to interview one witness
before Walmart interviewed that witness. Walmart did not voluntarily disclose the conduct in Mexico and only disclosed the conduct in Brazil,
China and India after the government had already begun investigating the Mexico conduct. The $137 million penalty includes forfeiture of $3.6
million and a fine of $724,898 from WMT Brasilia.

In a related resolution with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Walmart agreed to disgorge $144 million in profits.

The FBI's International Corruption Squad in Washington, D.C. and IRS-Cl are investigating the case. Assistant Chiefs Tarek Helou and Lorinda
Laryea and Trial Attorney Katherine Raut of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jamar Walker of the Eastern
District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs has provided significant assistance by obtaining key evidence in this case, as have public
authorities in, among other countries, Mexico and India.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Attachment(s):

Download Walmart Criminal Information

Download Walmart Judgment

Download Walmart Nonprosecution Agreement

Download Walmart Plea Agreement and Statement of Facts

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):
Criminal Division
USAO - Virginia, Eastern

Press Release Number:
19-691

Updated June 20, 2019
