 

September 27, 2016

CFTC Orders Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. to Pay a $400,000 Penalty for Inaccurate Large Trader
Reports for Physical Commodity Swaps Positions

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today filed and simultaneously settled
charges against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) for failing to comply with its obligations to submit accurate large
trader reports (LTRs) for physical commodity swap positions, in violation of Section 4s(f)(1)(A) of the Commodity
Exchange Act (CEA) and CFTC Regulations 20.4 and 20.7. Wells Fargo has its main office in Sioux Falls, South Dakota,
and has been provisionally registered with the CFTC as a Swap Dealer since December 31, 2012.

The CFTC Order requires, among other things, that Wells Fargo pay a $400,000 civil monetary penalty and cease and
desist from committing further violations of the CEA and CFTC Regulations, as charged.

As provided in the Order, large trader reporting for physical commodity swaps is essential to the CFTC’s ability to conduct
effective surveillance of markets in U.S. physical commodity futures and economically equivalent swaps. The Order
makes clear that as of March 1, 2013, swap dealers required to submit LTRs are expected to be in full compliance with
the requirements governing LTRs set forth in CFTC Regulations 20.4 and 20.7, in conjunction with further instructions
provided in the Part 20 Guidebook issued by the CFTC’s Division of Market Oversight.

The Order finds that from at least March 1, 2013 through November 13, 2015, every LTR submitted by Wells Fargo failed
to meet Part 20 requirements. According to the Order, Wells Fargo submitted inaccurate LTRs that contained multiple
errors, including both missing data and data presented in a format inconsistent with CFTC requirements. Among the
errors described in the Order, Wells Fargo’s reports included, at various times, records that failed to use the correct
Clearing Member Identifier and improperly formatted swaption expiration date values.

The Order further states that upon receiving its first error message from the CFTC in July 2015, Wells Fargo analyzed its
past reports and made and continues to make modifications to its data processing and reporting systems as necessary to
comply with its LTR reporting requirements.

The CFTC appreciates the assistance of Richard Galloway, Regina Sanders, and Edward Wehner of the CFTC’s Office of
Data Technology.

The CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Neel Chopra, Joseph Muoio (previously on
detail from the U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division), Michael Cazakoff, Candice Aloisi, Lenel Hickson Jr., and
Manal Sultan.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: September 27, 2016
