UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

RECEIVED CFTC

 

In the Matter of:

 

Proceedings Clerk
8:15 am, Sep 30, 2020

Rajeev Kansal,

 

CFTC Docket No. 20-73
Respondent.

Nee ee’ ee ee NS”

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I. INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
between May 2018 and June 2020 (‘Relevant Period’), Rajeev Kansal (“Respondent” or
‘“Kansal”) violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C.
§6c(a)(5)(C) (2018). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Kansal
engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order should be issued
imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Kansal has submitted an
Offer of Settlement (“Offer’’), which the Commission has determined to accept. Without
admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Kansal consents to the entry of
this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity Exchange
Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and acknowledges service of
this Order.!

 

' Respondent consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this proceeding and
in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, and agrees
that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Respondent
does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any
other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, other than: a
proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondent does not
consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any
other proceeding.
II. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

During the Relevant Period, Kansal engaged in multiple instances of the disruptive
trading practice known as “spoofing” (bidding or offering with the intent to cancel the bid or
offer before execution) involving futures contracts, including cotton futures contracts between
May 2018 and April 2019 and sugar futures contracts between May 2020 and June 2020, traded
on ICE Futures, U.S. (“ICE”), a designated contract market. This conduct violated Section
4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2018).

B. RESPONDENT

Rajeev Kansal is a resident of India. Kansal was a trader for a proprietary trading
company during the Relevant Period. Kansal has never been registered with the Commission.

C. FACTS

During the Relevant Period, Kansal engaged in trading in commodity futures accounts on
behalf of the proprietary trading firm and its wholly-owned subsidiary. During the Relevant
Period, Kansal placed bids and offers for cotton futures contracts (between May 2018 and April
2019) and sugar futures contracts (between May 2020 and June 2020) with the intent to cancel
the bids and offers before execution. Kansal’s spoofing activity involved placing an order that
he wanted to get filled (“Genuine Order’) on one side of the market, typically consisting of an
iceberg order with a small visible quantity; and on the opposite side of the market, placement of
one or more larger orders that he intended to cancel (“Spoof Order’), often for more than five
times the size of the visible quantity of the Genuine Order. Generally, Kansal quickly canceled
the Spoof Order after placing it, and often after his Genuine Order was filled.

After being notified by the Commission’s Division of Enforcement of an investigation
into his trading activity in cotton futures, Kansal engaged in similar trading activity in sugar
futures contracts between May 2020 and June 2020.

During the Relevant Period, Kansal placed multiple Spoof Orders for cotton and sugar
futures contracts on ICE.

Hil. LEGAL DISCUSSION

Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2018), makes it unlawful for
‘“‘[a]ny person to engage in any trading, practice, or conduct on or subject to the rules of a
registered entity that. . . is, is of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as,
‘spoofing’ (bidding or offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution).” See,
e.g., United States v. Coscia, 866 F.3d 782, 792-93 (7th Cir. 2017) (holding that because the Act
clearly defines spoofing, it provides adequate notice of prohibited conduct), cert. denied, 138 S.
Ct. 1989 (2018).
As described above, during the Relevant Period, Kansal placed bids and offers for futures
contracts listed on ICE, a registered entity, with the intent to cancel those bids and offers before
they were executed. By engaging in this conduct, Kansal violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act.
See CFTC vy. Oystacher, 203 F. Supp. 3d 934, 942 (N.D. Ill. 2016) (denying motion for judgment
on the pleadings, holding that allegations of placing “both bids and offers with the intent to
cancel those bids or offers before execution” constitutes “trading behavior [that] falls within the
Spoofing Statute’s defined prohibition’).

IV. FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, Kansal
violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2018).

V. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Kansal has submitted the Offer in which he, without admitting or denying the findings
and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;
4. Judicial review by any court;

5. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that he may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,
5 U.S.C. § 504 (2018), and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2018), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2019), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that he may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II, §§ 201-53,
110 Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
and
8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief, including this Order;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Kansal has consented in the Offer; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1. Makes findings by the Commission that Kansal violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2018);

2. Orders Kansal to cease and desist from violating Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act;

3. Orders Kansal to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000), plus post-judgment interest within thirty days of the
date of entry of this Order;

4. Orders that Kansal be prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in trading
on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section
1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2018)), for a period of four months after the
date of entry of this Order, and all registered entities shall refuse him trading
privileges during that period; and

5. Orders Kansal to comply with the conditions and undertakings consented to in the
Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Kansal shall cease and desist from violating Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 6c(a)(5)(C) (2018).

Kansal shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) (“CMP Obligation’’), within thirty days of the date of the entry of this Order.
If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within thirty days of the date of entry of this
Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the
date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2018).

Kansal shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by electronic funds
transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money
order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment
shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the
address below:
MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax

9-AMC-AR-CFTC @ faa. gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Kansal shall contact Marie Thorne
or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall fully
comply with those instructions. Kansal shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation
with a cover letter that identifies the Respondent and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. Kansal shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form
of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

Kansal is prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in trading on or subject to the
rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act,

7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2018)), for a period of four months after the date of entry of this
Order, and all registered entities shall refuse him trading privileges during that period;
and

Kansal shall comply with the following conditions and undertakings set forth in the
Offer:

1. Public Statements: Kansal agrees that neither he nor any of his agents or
employees under his authority or control shall take any action or make any public
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order
or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Kansal’s:

(1) testimonial obligations; or (11) right to take legal positions in other proceedings
to which the Commission is not a party. Kansal shall comply with this agreement,
and shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of his agents and/or
employees under his authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement.

2. Kansal agrees that he shall not, directly or indirectly, for a period of four months
starting from the date of entry of this Order:

a. enter into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term
is defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. §1.3 (2019)), for Kansal’s own
personal account or for any account in which Kansal has a direct or
indirect interest;

b. have any commodity interests traded on his behalf;
c. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests; and

d. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests.

3. Cooperation, in General: Kansal shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the
Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, in this action,
and in any current or future Commission investigation or action related thereto.
Kansal shall also cooperate in any investigation, civil litigation, or administrative
matter related to, or arising from, this action.

4, Partial Satisfaction: Kansal understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of any partial payment of Kansal’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of his obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
remaining balance.

5. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Kansal satisfies in full his CMP
Obligation as set forth in this Order, Kansal shall provide written notice to the
Commission by certified mail of any change to his telephone number and mailing
address within ten calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.
By the Commission.

Ftd We dtm

Robert N. Sidman
Deputy Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

 

Dated: September 30, 2020
