 

WMP/JPL/LRT:JPL/IPM
F. #2012R01716

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

 

eee Le ee xX
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO BE FILED UNDER SEAL
- against - COMPLAINT AND AFFIDAVIT
IN SUPPORT OF APPLICATION
SAMUEL MEBIAME, FOR ARREST WARRANT
Defendant. _ (7.18, US.C., § 371)
ee ee ee xX

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, SS:

YVES HUNZIKER, being duly sworn, deposes and states that he is a Special
Agent with the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigations Division (“IRS-CID”), duly
appointed according to law and acting as such.

Upon information and belief, in or about and between January 2007.and June
2015, both dates being approximate and inclusive, within the Eastern District of New York and
elsewhere, the defendant SAMUEL MEBIAME, together with others, did knowingly and.
willfully conspire to commit offenses against the United States, to wit: being a person, while in
the territory of the United States, corruptly to make usé of the mails and means and
instrumentalities of interstate commerce and to do any other act in furtherance of an offer,
payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the payment of any money, offer, gift, promise to
give, and authorization of the giving of anything of value to a foreign official and to a person,
while knowing that all or a portion of such money and thing of value would be and had been
offered, given, and promised, directly or indirectly, to a foreign official, for purposes of: (i)

influencing acts and decisions of such foreign official in his official capacity; (ii) inducing such
 

foreign official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such official; (111)
securing any improper advantage; and (iv) inducing such foreign official to use his influence
with a foreign government and agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts
and decisions of such government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist.the .
defendant SAMUEL MEBIAME, and others, in obtaining and retaining business for and with,
and directing business to, any person, contrary to Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-
3(a).

(Title 18, United States Code, Section 371)

The source of your deponent’s information and the grounds for his belief are as
follows:

1. J have been a Special Agent with IRS-CID for more than five years.
During my career as a federal law enforcement officer, I have personally participated in
numerous investigations, the execution of numerous search and arrest warrants, and the
debriefing of cooperating witnesses and informants, all related to various types of financial
crime, fraud, and corruption. Among other federal crimes, I have investigated offenses involving
conspiracies, tax fraud, mail fraud, wire fraud, bribery, and money laundering, as well as
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”).

2. In addition to my training and experience, I am familiar with the
information contained in this complaint and affidavit based upon (i) my own personal

participation in the investigation, (ii) my review of documents, records and reports, (iii)

! Because the purpose of this affidavit is to set forth only those facts necessary to
establish probable cause to arrest, I have not described all the relevant facts and circumstances of
which I am aware. In addition, where I rely on statements made by others, such statements are
set forth in part and in substance unless otherwise indicated.
 

interviews of the defendant SAMUEL MEBIAME, (iv) interviews of witnesses, and (v)
discussions with other law enforcement personnel.
L BACKGROUND

A. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Generally

3. The FCPA was enacted by Congress for the purpose of, among other things,
making it unlawful to act corruptly in furtherance of an offer, promise, authorization, or payment
of money or anything of value, directly or indirectly, to a foreign official for the purpose of
obtaining or retaining business for, or directing business to, any person.

B. The Defendant

4. The defendant SAMUEL MEBIAME was a Gabonese national who
worked as a consultant for a joint venture (the “Joint Venture”) between a U.S.-based hedge fund
(the “Hedge Fund”) and a Turks & Caicos Islands incorporated entity (the “Turks & Caicos
Entity”) in or about and between 2007 and 2015. MEBIAME’s job was to source and secure
mining opportunities in Africa for the Joint Venture and one of its portfolio companies (the
“Mining Company”). Prior to the formation of the Joint Venture in or about January 2008,
MEBIAME worked as a consultant for the Turks & Caicos Entity and the Mining Company.

5. According to corporate records, on or about August 10, 2011, MEBIAME
became a principal of Palm Island Residence, LLC (“Palm Island”), which was a Florida-
registered limited liability company. According to bank records, Palm Island had business
savings and checking accounts at a branch of a New York-based bank (the “Palm Island Savings
Account” and “Palm Island Checking Account”).

6. According to corporate records, on or about January 5, 2012, MEBIAME

became a managing member of SCI GEO, LLC (‘SCI GEO”), which was a Florida-registered
 

limited liability company. That same day, MEBLAME opened a business checking account in
the name of SCI GEO at a branch of a New York-based bank (the “SCI GEO Account”).
I. THE CONSPIRACY
A. Overview of the Scheme

7. The defendant SAMUEL MEBIAME worked on behalf of the Joint
Venture, the Turks & Caicos Entity, and the Mining Company as a “fixer” to obtain rights to
mineral concessions in Africa by routinely paying bribes to foreign government officials.
MEBIAME bribed government officials in at least each of Niger, Guinea and Chad. MEBIAME
personally took numerous steps while in the United States in furtherance of the scheme,
including, but not limited to, sending and receiving email and other communications with
coconspirators about the corrupt scheme, receiving payments related to the corrupt scheme into
U.S. bank accounts he established and meeting with coconspirators to discuss the corrupt
scheme.

8. The evidence of MEBIAME’s corrupt scheme includes, but is not limited
to, business records obtained from the Hedge Fund, e-mail messages obtained through court-

- authorized search warrants, corporate records, bank records, travel records, witness statements

and MEBIAME’s own voluntary admissions to U.S. law enforcement agents.”

? On or about June 17, 2015 and June 23, 2015, MEBIAME voluntarily met with federal
law enforcement agents and made statements, which are recounted herein in sum and substance
and in part. :
 

B. Execution of the Scheme

9. According to MEBIAME, African politicians and government officials
sought personal financial success by acquiring power within their respective governments and, in
turn, control over the natural resources of their countries, which they leveraged for their own
personal gain through bribery.

10. According to MEBIAME, he began working as a consultant to the Turks
& Caicos Entity in or about 2003. MEBIAME reported directly to the beneficial owner of the
Turks & Caicos Entity (“Coconspirator #1”), an individual whose identity is known to your
deponent. According to MEBIAME’s statements and e-mail records, MEBIAME began
acquiring assets for the benefit of the Joint Venture in or about 2007 and began formally
consulting for the Joint Venture upon its formation in or about 2008. MEBIAME was
compensated, in part, by receiving money, in-kind payments for laxury goods and services and
what he believed to be an economic interest in the Mining Company.

11. | According to documents obtained from the Hedge Fund and bank records
of the Turks & Caicos Entity and its principals, MEBIAME was paid at least $3.5 million for his
work in or about and between April 2007 and June 2012. Business records indicate that
MEBIAME was paid for, among other things, being “a consultant . . . [and] deliver[ing] services
in Niger and Chad.” According to MEBIAME, these services included the payment of bribes to
officials in Chad and Niger as described in more detail below.

12. In or about June 2008, MEBIAME was asked by Coconspirator #1 to
attend anti-corruption training and sign anti-corruption representations. According to
MEBIAME, he told Coconspirator #1 that if he was not allowed to spend money on government

officials, it would “kill MEBIAME’s business.
 

13. Subsequently, a dispute arose over MEBIAME’s ownership interest in the
Mining Company. On or about September 14, 2009, MEBIAME sent an e-mail regarding the
dispute to an employee of the Joint Venture (“Coconspirator #2”), an individual whose identity is
known to your deponent. Coconspirator #2 reported to Coconspirator #1. In the email,
MEBIAME stated:

I am calling from wednesday international press from America and
Europe as Well as African press to explain how your company is
trying to delete my shares [in the Mining Company] to hide its
illegal procedures to secure assets in Africa:

According to the RSA[ ] laws and also English and American laws,
you are not supposed to invite, commission or bribe any members
of an administration were you were competing for tenders etc . . .

You sistematicaly used corruption in Africa to get the assets you
have.

I have proofs of what i am stating and several witnesses that also
feel cheated by your company are ready to testify.

But more than ‘that, i have proofs from several Bank transfers
linking you directly to corruption.

You even made direct and indirect payment to several people
directly responsible in some African Administration for the
projects you were trying to get in some African countries{.]

* * *

If I am not given the money that i have worked for several years
turning a [the Mining Company] with 0 assets to a Multi million
dollar company, including giving your companies top African
network that you are today using for free, i can assure you that you
will also loose a lot, because i will let the world know what kind of
international crooks you are[.]

3 All quotations appear as in the original, without corrections or indications of
misspellings or typographical errors.
 

- 14. MEBIAME resolved the dispute and continued to work on behalf of the

Joint Venture, the Turks & Caicos Entity and the Mining Company, as described in more detail
below. In furtherance of the conspiracy, and as described below, MEBIAME traveled to the
United States and directed payments for his work to bank accounts in the United States, which he
controlled as an agent of both Palm Island and SCI GEO.

OL Niger Conduct

15. Niger is a country in Africa. In or about and between June 2007 and
November 2012, MEBIAME worked on behalf of the Mining Company, the Turks & Caicos
Entity and the Joint Venture to obtain and retain rights to uranium mining concessions in Niger.

16. During an interview with federal agents, MEBIAME admitted that he
acquired rights to uranium concessions by paying bribes to a high-ranking government official in
Niger (“Niger Official #1”), an individual whose identity is known to your deponent, to influence
another high-ranking government official (“Niger Official #2”), an individual whose identity is
known to your deponent, who had the power to grant uranium mining licenses to the Mining
Company and the Joint Venture. Niger Official #1 and Niger Official #2 were married to one
another.

17. | MEBIAME told federal agents that these bribes included, among other
things: cash payments directly to Niger Official #1; payments for “nice cars;” a $100,000
payment to a charity run by Niger Official #1; payments made to and through the nephew of
Niger Official #1 and Niger Official #2 (“Niger Official Intermediary #1”), an individual whose
identity is known to your deponént; payments made to and through the son of Niger Official #1
and Niger Official #2 (“Niger Official Intermediary #2”), an individual whose identity is known

to your deponent; and payments made through a lawyer, an individual whose identity is known
 

to your deponent (“Niger Official Intermediary #3”). In addition, according to MEBIAME’s
statements, Niger Official #1 told MEBIAME that if he helped to make Niger Official
Intermediary #2 a businessperson, Niger Official #1 would arrange for the grant of one or more
mining concessions as requested by MEBIAME.

18. | MEBIAME’s admissions concerning his corrupt conduct in Niger are
corroborated by, among other things, corporate records, bank records and e-mails, which
MEBIAME sent or received during the relevant time period.

19. For example, on or about July 20, 2007, MEBIAME sent Coconspirator #1
an e-mail message, which stated: “a message from our friend [Niger Official Intermediary #1] in
Niger forwarding a message from [Niger Official #1].” In the message, Niger Official #1 asked
for money to pay for an upcoming conference she was planning. MEBIAME wrote to
Coconspirator #1 regarding a proposed reply to Niger Official #1:

After [Niger Official #1] help[ed] us in Niger securing the Meeting

with [Niger Official #2] last time, [Niger Official #1] prove us to

be an efficient and very influent support for us next to [Niger
Official #2].

My suggestion is that we invite [Niger Official #1] ASAP to
[South Africa] to finalise this conference issue...but the real
objective behind is to show Niger Official #2 that we are making a
strong contribution to [Niger Official #1’s] Fondation. ... This
must happen before they take a decision on the Mining and Oil
request we recently sent them.

20. One week later, on or about July 27, 2007, a senior executive at the
Mining Company, whose identity is known to your deponent (“Coconspirator #3”), wrote a letter
to Niger Official #1 on the Mining Company’s letterhead, which stated:

We would like to thank you for giving our Mr. Samuel Mebiame
an audience. We are most pleased to be entering the mining
 

business in Niger, and we are most hopeful that our licenses will

be issued in the coming month ...: [The Mining Company]
would be pleased to contribute $100,000 to help finance your
conference.

21. Corporate records show that Niger Official Intermediary #1 set up a
Niamey, Niger based company in or about July 2007 (the “Niamey Company”). Bank records
show that on or about August 8, 2007, the Turks & Caicos Entity transferred $50,000 from a
London-based bank account, through a correspondent account in New York, to the Niamey
Company’s Niger-based bank account. |

22. On or about August 10, 2007, MEBIAME sent an e-mail to Coconspirator
#1, discussing the availability of valuable uranium concessions, which MEBIAME ultimately
secured for the Mining Company. MEBIAME informed Coconspirator #1 that “twle(U need to
have a final meeting on Monday night with the Ministers man, [Niger Official Intermediary #1],
to agree on the extra bilJock i asked to replace and that the Minister of Mine said it will be a
‘good surprise.”

23. Bank records show that on or about August 29, 2007, the Turks & Caicos
Entity transferred more than $1.3 million to the Niamey Company’s bank account in Niger
through a correspondent account in New York. On or about September 3, 2007, MEBLAME sent
an e-mail to Niger Official Intermediary #1, which included a copy of the bank transfer
confirmation for the $1.3 million. Corporate records indicate that this $1.3 million transfer was
purportedly for “Services Rendered.” .

24. During his interview with federal agents, MEBLAME stated that Niger
Official Intermediary #1 became too “flashy” and was openly displaying his wealth. As a result,
Niger Official #1 directed MEBLAME to cease paying Niger Official Intermediary #1 and

instead pay Niger Official Intermediary #2. MEBIAME thereafter ceased payments to Niger
 

Official Intermediary #1, which according to MEBIAME made his relationship with Niger
Official Intermediary #1 difficult.

25. MEBIAME began making direct cash payments to Niger Official
Intermediary #2. In addition to direct cash payments, MEBIAME paid for Niger Official
Intermediary #2’s travel expenses. Niger Official Intermediary #2 subsequently directed
MEBIAME to make payments through Niger Official Intermediary #3, who was a lawyer.

26. Corporate documents show that Niger Official Intermediary #3 was the
beneficial owner of a Panama-registered company (the “Panama Company”), an entity that is
known to your deponent. On or about June 11, 2008, the Panama Company submitted an invoice
to an affiliate of the Mining Company for $2.7 million for services that included: “Staying by the
Government of the Republic of NIGER.”

27. On or about June 26, 2008, Coconspirator #3 submitted an investment
memorandum for the Joint Venture to Coconspirator #1 and others, which recommended that the
Joint Venture invest $3 million into a subsidiary of the Mining Company to acquire uranium
concessions.

28. On or about June 27, 2008, MEBIAME received an e-mail from an
affiliate of the Turks & Caicos Entity, which contained payment instructions for $2.7 million for
the “negotiation of issue of [a uranium] concession ... in Niger.” The next day, on or about Tuhe
28, 2008, MEBIAME sent an e-mail to Niger Official Intermediary #3, which contained the
payment instructions for the $2.7 million. Bank records show that on or about July 1, 2008, the
Mining Company transferred $3 million to an account, which on information and belief was
controlled by Coconspirator #1. On or about July 3, 2008, $2.7 million was transferred from the

Coconspirator #1-controlled account to the Panama Company’s bank account.

10
 

29. In or about September 2008, Niger Official Intermediary #3 was arrested

in Niger for money laundering. On or about September 25, 2008, MEBIAME sent an e-mail to
Coconspirator #1 and Coconspirator #2, which stated, in part: “I then spoke to [Niger Official
Intermediary #2] and later to [Niger Official #1] who told me their people could only do
something on the court decision (behind the scene) but not while he was defending his case.”

30. After Niger Official Intermediary #3’s arrest, Mining Company employees
engaged once again with Niger Official Intermediary #1. For example, on or about May 16,
2011, Niger Official Intermediary #1 sent an e-mail to Coconspirator #3, which stated that Niger
Official Intermediary #1 could arrange for appointments with Niger’s new Minister of Mines or
“any other personality without exception when you wish.”

31. | Onor about August 5, 2010, Niger Official Intermediary #1 sent an e-mail
to Coconspirator #3, concerning the renewal of the Mining Company’s licenses in Niger. In the
e-mail, Niger Official Intermediary #1 wrote: “hi [Coconspirator #3], i hope you are well[.] i
finish my meeting this moorning, after hard time, all thinks are setile now. the princip is
accepted to renewal 6 permis of [the Mining Company].” On or about September 10, 2011,
Coconspirator #3 forwarded this email to MEBIAME, who was upset that the Mining Company
used Niger Official Intermediary #1 for any activity in Niger given Niger Official #1’s prior
instructions to stop paying Niger Official Intermediary #1 and MEBIAME’s poor relationship
with Niger Official Intermediary #1.

32. On or about July 31, 2011, MEBIAME traveled from Paris, France to
Miami International Airport. On or about August 5, 2011, while MEBIAME was in the United
States, he received a telephone call from Coconspirator #3, who asked MEBIAME to travel to

Niger to meet with Niger Official #2 and propose a partnership between the Turks & Caicos

11
 

Entity and the Nigerian state-owned mining company. That same day, on or about August 5,
2011, Coconspirator #3 sent an e-mail from a U-S.-based e-mail account to MEBIAME’s U.S.-
based e-mail account, which attached two agreements that set forth the proposed partnership.

33. On or about August 6, 2011, while in the United States, MEBIAME sent -
an e-mail to Coconspirator #1, which stated, in part: “I received a call from [Coconspirator #3]
regarding Niger situation: This is very good news as you well know. . . . [Coconspirator #3] told
me I should go there with [Coconspirator #3] and the lawyers to ‘Introduce’ the deal to [a high-
ranking government official in Niger]... . Before signing any documents my local partners
would surely ask me how do I feet them in this Game.” The e-mail continued to describe actions
that MEBIAME was taking on behalf of Coconspirator #1 in Guinea (which are described
below). MEBIAME signed the e-mail: “Samy from Miami! ILy’

34. On or about September 22, 2011, MEBIAME traveled from Paris, France
to John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”), located in Queens, New York to meet with
Coconspirator #1 and Coconspirator #2 and discuss the plan for Niger, MEBLAME’s role in the
conspiracy going forward and the role of Niger Official Intermediary #1. E-mail records show
that MEBIAME’s travel agent listed the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, New York as his residence
during his stay.

35. Also on or about September 22, 2011, Coconspirator #1 traveled from
Paris, France to JFK to meet with MEBLAME and Coconspirator #2.

36. On or about September 22, 2011, while in New York, MEBIAME
forwarded multiple emails related to the Niger mining licenses to Coconspirator #2. The

forwarded e-mails were between Niger Official Intermediary #1 and Coconspirator #3 and

12
 

concerned the renewal of mining licenses in Niger and meetings with various government

37. On or about September 24, 2011, MEBIAME sent an e-mail to

Coconspirator #1 and Coconspirator #2, which, in part, described a meeting in New York:

Following our conversation, at the Plazza Hotel . . ., re Niger : It
worried [me] to realise that [Coconspirator #3] has still not yet
explain you the reality of the situation .... [Coconspirator #3 had]
always been in touch with [Niger Official Intermediary #1] and
used [Niger Official Intermediary #1] eventhough you well knew
[Niger Official Intermediary #1] was trying to bring me down
convinced that i was an obstacle for [Niger Official Intermediary
#1] with [the Mining Company].

38. During an interview with federal agents, MEBIAME stated that he and

Niger Official Intermediary #1 met in order to make peace and work with one another.

Subsequently, on or about September 24, 2011, Niger Official Intermediary #1 forwarded an e-

mail to MEBIAME, which stated:

The Commission has sent a letter to the Ministry of Mines and
Energy, asking the Minister to suspend 27 permits, all the 9
permits of [the Joint Venture] as a punishment for their having
paid bribes. The 9 permits of [the Joint Venture] include the 6
permits of {the Mining Company]... . I am trying to figure out
how to stop this process and it may require time.

39. According to corporate documents and e-mails, employees of the Hedge

Fund and of the Joint Venture continued to seek license and permit renewals for the Mining

Company’s existing uranium concessions in Niger until at least November 2012.

ii. Guinea Conduct

40. Guinea is a country in West Africa with significant mineral resources,

including bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, and gold. In or about and between June 2010 and June

2012, MEBIAME engaged in negotiations for mineral rights and opportunities on behalf of

13
 

Coconspirator #1 and the Turks & Caicos Entity, including the opportunity to be partners with a
Guinean state-owned mining company (the “SOMC”). MEBIAME sent e-mail messages to
Coconspirator #1, which stated that he (MEBIAME) had “exclusivity” over such opportunities in
Guinea. According to MEBIAME, a senior Guinean government official (“Guinea Official #1”),
an individual whose identity is known to your deponent, requested MEBIAME’s assistance in
setting up the SOMC.

41. E-mail records show that in or about and between February and March
2011, Coconspirator #1 and MEBIAME, among others, were involved in re-writing the Guinean
mining code. Coconspirator #1 and MEBIAME prepared and transmitted draft correspondence,
to be printed on “Republic of Guinea Conakry Letterhead” and signed by a Guinean minister,
which would be used to notify existing permit holders of legal issues with their mining permits.

42. In or about March 2011, a company controlled by Coconspirator #1
entered into an agreement with the Guinean government, which gave the company the option to
buy into the SOMC. On or about April 29, 2011, an affiliate of the Turks & Caicos Entity
loaned the government of Guinea $25 million as part of a deal to become a partner in the SOMC.
Coconspirator #1 raised the $25 million through a related-party stock sale to the Joint Venture.
MEBIAME signed the loan document on behalf of the affiliate of the Turks & Caicos Entity.
According to MEBIAME, the partnership with the SOMC ultimately did not go forward due to
negative press accounts, which indicated that the deal between the Guinean government and
Coconspirator #1 was corrupt.

43. During his interview with federal agents, MEBIAME stated that he had
special access to mining opportunities in Guinea because of payments he provided to senior

government officials in Guinea in exchange for such access. For example, in 2010, MEBIAME

14
 

provided an S-class Mercedes Benz sedan to a candidate for high political office in Guinea, who
was later elected and became Guinea Official #1. E-mail messages sent and received by
MEBIAME show that on or about March 15, 2011, MEBIAME arranged to pay $440,000 to rent
a private Airbus jet for Guinea Official #1’s use.

44. MEBIAME told federal agents that his financial support to Guinean
government officials included, but was not limited to, approximately $100,000 to $200,000 in
cash payments provided by MEBIAME to another senior Guinean Government Official
(“Guinea Official #2”), an individual whose identity is known to your deponent. MEBIAME
said that Guinea Official #2 arranged a secret meeting with the heads of the SOMC and provided
MEBIAME secret information, which provided MEBIAME leverage in negotiations with the
government.

45. Bank records corroborate MEBIAME’s statements and show that on or
about June 29, 2011, MEBIAME arranged for the transfer of approximately $150,000 to Guinea
Official #2.

46. On or about August 6, 2011, MEBIAME, while in the United States, sent

é

an e-mail to Coconspirator #1, which stated, in part:

‘New team” is doing lots of progress as they all went to Guinee

~ last friday and had several meetings with [Guinea Official #1]
specificly regarding our Group. Following those meetings
essentialy to clarify our Business position, [Guinea Official #1]
instructed the Minister of Mines to meet them and to call me all
together: which they did. Minister of Mines actualy sent you is
best regards and asked me to tell you that you li now be fine.. The
outcome looks very interesting as they clearly asked me on the
phone what could they give us immediatly: [mining concessions]
etc .. difficult to answear for me ..It is clear now that the “New
team” has cleaned the mess there and re-explain [Guinea Official
#1] how important it is to re organise the relation with us by also
keeping [Guinea Official #1’s] word . it also makes no doubt now
that we ( you and me ) will have to go there soon to finalise that

15
 

“asset identification and allocation strategy”" that i have put in
place and asked “New team” to impliment.

47, Bank records, e-mails and MEBIAME’s statements show that between
2011 and 2012, MEBIAME provided additional in-kind payments to Guinean government
officials including, but not limited to: (a) business class airfare to Paris for Guinea Official #2;
(b) a first-class upgrade for Guinea Official 1’s son; and (c) hotel arrangements for Guinea
Official #2 worth approximately $1,100.

48. According to a consultancy agreement executed between the Turks &
Caicos Entity and an entity controlled by MEBIAME, the Turks & Caicos Entity agreed to pay
MEBIAME a fee of at least $1 million and to reimburse “all costs, expenses and overheads” for
MEBIAME’s work in Guinea.

49. Bank records and e-mails sent by MEBIAME show that he used at least
one of his U.S. companies to receive payments for his work in Guinea. In addition, MEBIAME
told federal agents that he used the money he received from the South African Entity to purchase
a house in Miami, Florida.

50. On or about September 28, 2011, the Paim Island Checking Account
. received a wire transfer of $20,000 from a Turks & Caicos Entity bank account. On or about
November 9, 2011, the Palm Island Checking Account received a wire transfer of $82,200 from
a bank account in the name of Coconspirator #1.

51. On or about March 21, 2012, the SCI GEO Account received a wire
transfer for $60,000 from a Turks & Caicos Entity bank account.

52. On April 17, 2012, MEBIAME sent an e-mail to Coconspirator #2, which
asked Coconspirator #2 to “transfer to SC] GEO at CHASE BANK MIAMI my fees for my work

done in January 2012 in Conakry. This fee is for a total amount of: Euros 50[,]000.” “Conakry”

16
 

is the capital city of Guinea. On or about April 23, 2012, the SCI GEO Account received a wire
transfer for $64,710 from a Turks & Caicos Entity bank account.

53. On or about May 22, 2012, MEBLAME, while located in the United
States, sent an e-mail to.an associate of Coconspirator #1, which stated: “Please transfer USD
100 000 to SCi Geo. Account in Miami.” On or about May 23, 2012, the SCI GEO Account
received a wire transfer of $100,000 from a Swiss-based bank account held in the name of
Coconspirator #2. On or about July 20, 2012, the SCE GEO Account received a wire transfer of
$25,000 from a Turks & Caicos Entity bank account.

54. On or about May 28, 2012, while in the United States, MEBIAME
received an e-mail from a personal assistant to Coconspirator #1, which stated: “Dear Samy
Please see attached from [Coconspirator #1],” and which included an earlier e-mail that was
originally addressed to Coconspirator #1 and Coconspirator #2. The forwarded e-mail concerned
a bet for a watch between Coconspirator #1 and Coconspirator #2 as to whether the United States
could assert jurisdiction under the FCPA solely based on the use of correspondent banks in the
United States to clear transactions denominated in U.S. Dollars.

55. Bank records show that MEBIAME transferred proceeds he received in
connection with his work in Guinea to U.S.-based bank accounts. For example, on or about
November 25, 2011, MEBIAME transferred $44,880 from a bank account in Cyprus, which
received fees for his work in Guinea, to a New York-based bank account held in the name of
MEBIAME.

iii. Chad Conduct

56. | Chad is acountry in central Africa. According to corporate records, in or

about and between January 2007 and June 2008, MEBIAME obtained the rights to uranium

17
 

concessions and explored other possible natural resource opportunities in Chad on behalf of the
Mining Company and the Joint Venture.

57. During an interview with federal agents, MEBIAME stated that he was “a
one man show” in Chad who singlehandedly obtained uranium concessions for the Mining
Company. MEBIAME was introduced to a high-level government official in Chad (“Chad
Official #1”), an individual whose identity is known to your deponent, by a local businessman
(“Coconspirator #4”), an individual whose identity is known to your deponent. Chad Official
#1’s official duties included advising the President of Chad on mining matters and awarding
mining rights to companies.

58. | MEBIAME also admitted to federal agents that he paid bribes to Chad
Official #1 to obtain the uranium concessions on behalf of the Mining Company and Joint
Venture. MEBIAME stated, among other things, that Chad Official #1 was an “expensive
person.” MEBIAME also stated that he gave Chad Official #1 cash and paid for travel expenses
and shopping excursions for Chad Official #1 and Chad Official #1’s spouse in Paris, France.

59. Additionally, MEBIAME told federal agents that he was able to acquire
uranium concessions for the Mining Company and Joint Venture through Chad Official #1’s
influence and official action, which included, among other things, signing mining licenses and.
stripping other mining companies of their rights to award them to the Mining Company.
MEBIAME’s admissions are corroborated by e-mails he sent or received during the relevant
period.

60. For example, on or about September 18, 2007, MEBIAME received an e-

mail from a coconspirator, an individual whose identity is known to your deponent, which stated:

18
 

“No one is disputing [Coconspirator #4’s] role in facilitating initial contact with the Chadian~
government — for which a consideration was advanced to him and [Chad Official #1].”

61. On or about April 23, 2008, an employee of the Hedge Fund, whose
identity is known to your deponent, and Coconspirator #3 submitted an investment memorandum
to a senior executive of the Hedge Fund, an individual whose identity is known to your deponent,
and Coconspirator #1, which recommended a $10 million investment to acquire additional
uranium concessions in Chad. According to the investment memorandum, the uranium
concessions had been stripped by the government of Chad from a French-owned and Canadian-
based mining company (the “Canadian Mining Company”) approximately one month earlier.
MEBIAME told federal agents that he persuaded Chad Official #1 to strip the Canadian Mining
Company of its assets so the assets could subsequently be awarded to the Mining Company.

62. On or about February 14, 2009, MEBIAME sent an e-mail to
Coconspirator #1 and Coconspirator #2, which discussed MEBIAME’s work in Chad. The e-
mail stated in part:

CHAD , | agreed to fly the day that the war started with Sudan, to

controversialy reverse the situation by convincing the Government

to allocate to [the Mining Company] the potentially best block of

the country that was ALREADY the property of [the Canadian

Ming Company]: This resulted in the fury of [Foreign President]

during his visit to CHAD PRESIDNT .... To please the [foreign

nation], the CHAD deciders had no choice but to fire both [Chad

Official #1], and [another Chad government official]: Those two

men hold today very minor positions in Government for having

helped us on a very dangerous ground[.]

IW. CONCLUSION

63. [have been informed by an Assistant United States Attorney that Chad

Official #1, Niger Official #1, Niger Official #2, Guinea Official #1 and Guinea Official #2 were

19
 

“foreign officials,” as that term is defined in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section

78dd-3()(2)(A).

WHEREFORE, your deponent respectfully requests that an arrest warrant be

issued for the defendant SAMUEL MEBIAME so that he may be dealt with according to law.

IT IS FURTHER REQUESTED that, because public filing of this document at

this time could result in a risk of flight by the defendant, as well as jeopardize the government’s

investigation, all papers submitted in support of this application, including the complaint and

arrest warrant, be sealed until further order of the Court.

Sworn to before me this
/2—th day of August, 2016

ie

UNIT
EAS

S| wo

|

|

D

& JUDGE
fORK

i
|
i

20

LG

YVES HUNZIKER

Special Agent

Internal Revenue Service,
Criminal Investigations Division
 

 

 

TO: Clerk’s Office
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

APPLICATION FOR LEAVE
TO FILE DOCUMENT UNDER SEAL

RRERERE REA RERAAAR EE TEA BERT LAER

United States

~v
Samuel Mebiame. Docket Number
FEO ree

SUBMITTED BY: Plaintiff, Defendant. pOo!_¥

Name:_James P. Loonam

Firm Name-USAO EDNY

Address:__271-A Cadman Plaza East
Brooklyn, New York 11201

Phone Number:_718 2547520,
E-Mail Address: james.loonam@usdoj.gov

No ¥

 

INDICATE UPON THE PUBLIC DOCKET SHEET: YES

 

 

 

MANDATORY CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE:

 

the following other statute or regulation:
(Check one)

If yes, state description of document to be entered on docket sheet:

A.)___ A copy of this application either has been or will be promptly served upon all parties to this action.
orC.)_v_ This is a criminal document submitted, and fli

 

 

A) If pursuant to a prior Court Order:
Docket Number of Case in Which Entered:

Judge/Magistrate Judge:

 

B) Ifa new application, the statute, regulation, or other legal basis that

authorizes filing under seal

Risk of flight of the defendant.

ORDERED SEALED AND PLACED IN THE CLERK’S OFFICE,

AND MAY NOT BE UNSEALED UNLESS ORDERED BY
THE COURT,

DATED: Brookly:

—— S} jus

GS=PISTREE:

 

RECEIVED IN C

 

08/12/2016
DATE

 

 

 
