Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 1 of 8 PagelD #:20

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

 

EASTERN DIVISION
U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES
TRADING COMMISSION,
Civil Action No:
Plaintiff,
Judge
VS.

MATTHEW J. MARCUS,
TECH POWER INC.,

JOHN D. BRINER, and
METROWEST LAW CORP.,

Defendants.

 

 

Bt EX PARTE STATUTORY RESTRAINING ORDER
AND ASSET FREEZE

 

Plaintiff, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”),
has filed a Complaint for Injunctive and Other Equitable Relief and Civil Monetary Penalties
under the Commodity Exchange Act and moved, pursuant to Section 6c(a) of the Commodity
Exchange Acct (the “Act”), for an ex parte statutory restraining order freezing assets, and
prohibiting the destruction of books, records, or other documents. This Court has considered the
pleadings, declarations, exhibits, and memorandum filed in support of the Commission’s Motion
for Ex Parte Statutory Restraining Order (“SRO”) and finds that:

1. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and over the subject matter of this
action pursuant to Sections 2(c)(2) and 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 2(c)(2) and 13a-1 (2012)
which authorizes the Commission to seek injunctive relief against any person whenever it shall
appear that such person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice

constituting a violation of any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation or order thereunder.

co eta pee ae
tte ee
Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 2 of 8 PagelD #:21

2. Venue lies properly within this District pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. §13a-1(e) (2012), in that the Defendants are found, inhabit, or transact business in this
District, or the acts and practices in violation of the Act have occurred, are occurring or are about
to occur within this District.

3. There is good cause to believe that Defendants have engaged in, are engaging in,
or are about to engage in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a) (2012) and 17 C.F.R. § 1.38(a) (2014).
Weighing the equities and considering the Commission’s likelihood of success in its claims for
relief, the issuance of an SRO is in the public interest.

4. There is good cause for the Court to freeze certain assets owned, controlled,
managed, or held by or on behalf of, or for the benefit of Defendants. Absent the entry of this
statutory restraining order, Defendants are likely to dissipate or transfer assets and destroy
business records.

5. There is good cause for entry of an order prohibiting Defendants, their agents,
servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and persons in active concert or participation with
Defendants, including any successor thereof, from destroying records and/or denying agents of
the Commission access to inspect and copy records to ensure that Commission representatives
have immediate and complete access to those books and records.

6. There is good cause to believe that immediate and irreparable damage to the
Court’s ability to grant effective final relief in the form of monetary redress will occur from the
sale, transfer, assignment, or other disposition by Defendants of assets or records unless
Defendants are immediately restrained and enjoined by Order of the Court.

7. This is a proper case for granting an ex parfe statutory restraining order to

preserve the status quo and enable the Commission to fulfill its statutory duties.
Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 3 of 8 PagelD #:22

DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:

8. “Assets” means any legal or equitable interest in, right to, or claim to, any real or
personal property, whether individually or jointly, directly or indirectly controlled, and wherever
located, including but not limited to: chattels, goods, instruments, equipment, fixtures, general
intangibles, effects, leaseholds mail or other deliveries, inventory, checks, notes, accounts
(including, but not limited to, bank accounts and accounts at other financial institutions), credits,
receivables, lines of credit, contracts (including spot, futures, options, or swaps contracts),
insurance policies, and all cash, wherever located, whether in the United States or outside the
United States.

9. “Document” is synonymous in meaning and equal in scope to the usage of the
term in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (“Fed. R. Civ. P.”’) 34(a), and includes, but is not limited
to, all writings or printed matter of any kind, including without limitation: records,
correspondence, memoranda, notes, rolodexes, address books, diaries, statistics, e-mail, letters,
telegrams, minutes, contracts, reports, studies, checks, statements, receipts, returns, summaries,
pamphlets, books, prospectuses, interoffice or intra-office communications, telephone message
slips, offers, notations of conversations, bulletins, drawings, plans, computer printouts, computer
input or output, teletypes, facsimiles, invoices, worksheets, ledger books, books of accounts, and
all drafts, alterations, modifications, changes and amendments of any of the foregoing. The term
“document” also includes graphs, charts, photographs, phonographic record, audio and video
recordings, computer records, meta data, and other data compilations from which information
can be obtained or translated, if necessary, through detection devices into reasonable usable

form. The term “document” also refers to each and every document in your actual or
Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 4 of 8 PagelD #:23

constructive possession, including but not limited to: (i) all documents within your custody or
control of any of your present or former agents, employers, employees, partners, and (ii) all
documents which you have a legal or equitable right to obtain from another person. A draft or
non-identical copy is a separate document within the meaning of the term. A document also
includes the file and folder tabs associated with each original and copy.

10. “Defendants” refers to Matthew J. Marcus, Tech Power, Inc., John D. Briner, and
MetroWest Law Corporation and any person insofar as they are acting in the capacity of an
officer, agent servant, employee, or attorney of Defendants and any person who receives actual
notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise insofar as he or she is acting in concert or
participation with Defendants.

ll. “Trading and Associated Accounts” refers to Defendants’ futures trading accounts
held at Interactive Brokers, account number XXXX0560 in the name of Tech Power, Inc. and
account number XXXX7543 in the name of MetroWest Law Corporation, as well as any other of

Defendants’ account(s) that received funds as a result of the unlawful conduct.

RELIEF GRANTED
I. Asset Freeze

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Defendants and their agents, servants, employees,
assigns, attorneys, and person in active concert or participation with them, including any
successor thereof, and persons in active concert or participation with them, who receive actual
notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise, are immediately restrained and enjoined,
except as otherwise ordered by this Court, from directly or indirectly transferring, selling,
alienating, liquidating, encumbering, pledging, leasing, loaning, assigning, concealing,

dissipating, converting, withdrawing, or otherwise disposing of any assets in the Trading and
Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 5 of 8 PagelD #:24

Associated Accounts, wherever located, including any assets held outside the United States.

Il. Identification and Preservation of Assets
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, pending further Order of this Court, that any financial or
brokerage institution, business entity, or person that holds, controls, or maintains custody of assets in
the Trading and Associated Accounts, or has held, controlled, or maintained custody of any such
account or asset of Defendant, shall:

A. Prohibit Defendants and all other persons from withdrawing, removing,
assigning, transferring, pledging, encumbering, disbursing, dissipating, converting,
selling or otherwise disposing of any such asset, except as directed by further order of the
Court; provided, however, that any compliance official of any futures commission
merchant at which Defendants maintain accounts shall have the authority and discretion
to liquidate or close out any and all open commodity futures contracts or open
commodity futures options positions in Defendants’ accounts in a prompt and orderly
fashion; and

B. Provide counsel for the Commission within 5 (five) business days of receiving
a copy of this Order, a statement setting forth:

(1) the identification number of each account or asset titled in the name,
individually or jointly, of any Defendant or held on behalf of, or for the benefit of,

Defendant or under the control of Defendant; and

(2) the balance of each such account, or a description of the nature and
value of such asset as of the close of business on the day on which this Order is
served, and, if the account or other asset has been closed or removed, the date
closed or removed, the total funds removed in order to close the account, the
name of the person or entity to whom such account or other asset was remitted;

and
Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 6 of 8 PagelD #:25

C. Upon request by the Commission, promptly provide the Commission with
copies of all records or other documentation pertaining to such account or asset, including
but not limited to originals or copies of account applications, trading records, account
statements, signature cards, checks, drafts, deposit tickets, transfers to and from the
accounts, all other debit and credit instruments or slips, currency transaction reports,
1099 forms, and safe deposit box logs; and

D. Cooperate with all reasonable requests of the Commission relating to
implementation of this Order.

Ill. Maintenance of, and Access to, Business Records

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Defendants, and all persons or entities who receive
notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise, are restrained and enjoined from directly or
indirectly destroying, mutilating, erasing, altering, concealing or disposing of, in any manner, directly
or indirectly, any documents that relate to the business practices or business finances of Defendants
Tech Power Inc. or MetroWest Law Corporation.

IV. Commission's Access to, and Inspection of, Documents

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that representatives of the Commission be immediately
allowed to inspect the books, records, and other documents of Defendants and their agents
including, but not limited to, paper documents, electronically stored data, tape recordings, and
computer discs, wherever they may be situated and whether they are in the possession of any
Defendant or others, and to copy said documents, data and records, either on or off the premises where
they may be situated.

Upon request of the Commission, Defendants are ordered to deliver to the Commission
documents of the Defendants, including but not limited to all books and records of accounts, all
financial and accounting records, balance sheets, income statements, bank records (including

6
Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 7 of 8 PagelD #:26

monthly statements, cancelled checks, records of wire transfers, and check registers), lists of all
customers or investors, title documents, other papers, all keys, computer passwords, entry codes,
and combinations to locks necessary to gain or to secure access to any of the assets or documents of
Defendants, including but not limited to, access to Defendants’ business premises, means of
communication, accounts, computer systems, or other property and information identifying the
accounts, employees, properties, or other assets or obligations of the Defendants.
V. Service of Order

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that copies of this Order may be served by any means including
e-mail, facsimile transmission, the means described in 17 C.F.R. § 15.05 (2014), or a private express
courier service, upon any Defendant or other entity or person that may have possession, custody, or
control of any documents or assets of any Defendant or that may be subject to any provision of this
Order.

VI. Service on the Commission

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Defendants shall serve all pleadings, correspondence,
notices required by this Order, and other materials on the Commission by delivering a copy to
Lindsey Evans or Diane Romaniuk, Senior Trial Attorney, Division of Enforcement, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, 525 W. Monroe, Suite 1100, Chicago IL 60661 by personal delivery or

courier service (such as Federal Express or United Parcel Service) and not by regular mail.
Case: 1:15-cv-03307 Document #: 3-1 Filed: 04/14/15 Page 8 of 8 PagelD #:27

VII. Bond Not Required of Plaintiff
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Plaintiff Commission is an agency of the United States
of America and, accordingly, no bond need be posted by the Commission.
VIII. Further Court Hearings and Filing Deadline
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the parties shall appear for a status hearing on
Mel BE ,2015,at__$- o'clock.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that should any party wish to file a memorandum of law
or other papers in opposition to the Motion for Preliminary Injunction, all papers shall be filed
and served on or before April 24 — 2015.

Cu 0 C E lainti io i junctt set
fertearing on tor lock.
IX. Force and Effect of Order
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Order shall remain in full force and effect until

further order of this Court, and that this Court retains jurisdiction of this matter for all purposes.

SO ORDERED at Chicago, Illinois on this_/@ day of _dgm'/ _, 2015.

UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE

 

ge ee ee
, .
