Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 20671 / August 6, 2008
SEC v. Ali Hozhabri, Civil Action No. 08 CV 1359 (D.D.C.)

SEC Charges Former ABB Project Manager for Falsifying Company's
Books and Records

The Securities and Exchange Commission announced today that it filed a
settled civil action in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia against Ali Hozhabri, a former project manager for a subsidiary of
ABB Ltd., charging him with violations of the books and records provisions of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). ABB is a Swiss
corporation, and its American Depository Receipts are registered with the
Commission and trade on the New York Stock Exchange.

As alleged in the complaint, Hozhabri was a project manager for ABB Network
Management ("ABB NM"), a division of a U.S. based ABB subsidiary, which
provides products and services for managing power generation and
transmission networks. The Commission alleges that, from 2002 through
2004, Hozhabri fraudulently submitted approximately $468,714 in cash and
check disbursement requests to ABB NM for purported business expenses
associated with projects in Brazil, Paraguay, and the United Arab Emirates. As
alleged in the complaint, these purported expenses were phony, and
inaccurately recorded as legitimate business expenses in ABB's books and
records. The Commission further alleges that the funds disbursed by ABB NM
as a result of these requests were not used to pay any business expenses, but
rather were embezzled by Hozhabri and the former General Manager of ABB
NM. According to the complaint, Hozhabri personally kept $234,357 of the
embezzled funds.

The Commission alleges that Hozhabri violated Section 13(b)(5) of the
Exchange Act, and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder, and aided and abetted violations
of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. Without admitting or denying the
allegations in the complaint, Hozhabri consented to the entry of a final
judgment that permanently enjoins him from future violations of these
provisions, and orders him to disgorge his ill-gotten gains of $234,357, which
will be deemed satisfied by his payment of that amount in a pending criminal
case by the U.S. Department of Justice. In that case, United States v.
Hozhabri, Criminal Docket No. H-07-452(s) (SDTx), Hozhabri has pled guilty to
conspiracy to commit wire fraud and is awaiting sentencing.

The Commission wishes to thank the U.S. Department of Justice and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation for their assistance in connection with this
matter.

The Commission's investigation is continuing.

® SEC Complaint in this matter

http. /www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2008/Ir20671.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 08/06/2008
