UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

 

 

In the Matter of:

 

FCStone, LLC

Proceedings Clerk
CFTC Docket No. 15-21 Se 11:53 am, May 01, 2015)

 

 

Respondent.

 

Sea et Nett eet” “ee gage” ee Seer”

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, AS AMENDED,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from at least 2008 until May 15, 2013 (the “Relevant Period”), FCStone LLC (“FCStone” or
“Respondent”) violated Commission Regulation (“Regulation”) 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2014).
Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent
engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order should be issued
imposing remedial sanctions,

II.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, as Amended, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”) and acknowledge service of this Order.'

 

Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this

proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party; provided, however, that Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce
the terms of this Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other
proceeding.
III.
The Commission finds the following:
A, SUMMARY

FCStone had inadequate procedures in place to govern the transfer of positions between
customer accounts held at the firm, had not adequately trained its personnel on the circumstances
of when such transfers may occur, and on one occasion failed to diligently supervise the handling
by its employees of certain commodity interest accounts carried at the firm in violation of
Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2014).

B. RESPONDENT

FCStone, LLC (“FCStone”) is a Futures Commission Merchant (“FCM”) and
Commodity Trading Advisor registered with the Commission since March 6, 2000 and August 8,
2012, respectively. FCStone is a subsidiary of FCStone Group Inc., which was acquired in
September 2009 by International Assets Holding Corporation. International Assets Holding
Corporation changed its name to INTL FCStone Inc. in 2011 and is a publicly-held company
traded on the NASDAQ under the symbol “INTL”.

C. FACTS

A clearing member, like Respondent, may transfer trades or positions among customers’
commodity accounts held at the firm so long as the transfer is merely from one account to
another account that has the same beneficial ownership. Indeed, from at least 2008 to the
present, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (“CME”) has had a rule to that effect governing the
transfer of positions between customers’ commodity accounts held at a firm.’

Respondent’s Compliance Manual in effect during the Relevant Period did not have
policies or procedures governing the transfer of positions between customers’ accounts, and
FCStone had no set written policy governing a request by a customer to transfer positions
between accounts. Instead, FCStone had an unwritten policy such that its employees understood
that they were to seek guidance if a transfer was requested between two accounts that were not
under common control. That unwritten policy, however, did not provide specific guidance
regarding the impact of beneficial ownership on account transfers. In particular, transfers
between accounts can only occur when (i) the transfer merely constituted a change from one
account to another account and (11) the underlying beneficial ownership in the two accounts
remained the same.

 

2 In substance, during the Relevant Period, CME Rule 853, which is titled “Transfer of

Trades,” required that existing trades may be transferred on the books of a clearing member so
long as the transfer merely constitutes a change from one account to another account provided
the underlying beneficial ownership in the accounts remains the same. In March of 2014, the
CME amended Rule 853.A(1)(i) to state that trades may be transferred on the books of a clearing
member only when the transfer results in the transfer of trade(s) from one account to another
account with “identical” beneficial ownership.
In May 2013 FCStone transferred positions between two accounts that did not have the
same underlying beneficial ownership. In particular, FCStone was the clearing FCM for an
individual precious metals supplier located in the United Arab Emirates. On May 2, 2013, the
individual orally requested that Respondent transfer approximately $20 Million in gold and silver
positions from his personal account to a corporate account in which he was 98.95% owner.
Respondent’s employees made the transfer believing that, because the individual and corporate
accounts had the same large trader number and the individual controlled both accounts, the
positions could be transferred between the two accounts. In actuality, however, the tax
identification numbers for the two accounts were different, and the accounts did not have the
same underlying beneficial ownership because there were two fractional minority owners of the
corporate account.

Subsequently, before it was contacted by the Commission concerning the matters
addressed in this Order, FCStone revised its written procedures concerning the transfer of
positions between customers’ accounts” and, on or about May 15, 2013, on its own and without
being prompted by the Commission, updated its Compliance Manual. Among other things,
FCStone now included a new subsection titled “Transfers Between Accounts.” Specifically, this
new subsection provides:

“In general, transfers of positions may be made between two accounts carried by
the Firm only if such transfer does not result in any change in the beneficial
ownership of the positions. In addition, such transfers may be made only upon
receipt of a written request by the beneficial owner stating: (i) the relevant
positions to be transferred; (ii) the accounts involved; and if necessary (iii) that
the accounts involved are beneficially owned by the same person or entity. Under
certain circumstances, additional or alternative documentation may be required to
affect the transfer.”

Additionally, since updating its Compliance Manual to include the new subsection
concerning the procedures for transferring positions between customers’ commodity accounts,
FCStone has provided adequate training to its supervisors and/or employees on its new
procedures.

Further, FCStone cooperated fully with the Commission’s investigation into the matters
described in this Order.

IV. LEGAL DISCUSSION
Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2014), requires:

 

3 FCStone revised its written procedures in part because, on May 3, 2013, a large margin

call was issued in the corporate account to which the positions had been transferred the previous
day, and FCStone then realized that the two accounts did not have the same underlying beneficial
ownership.
Each Commission registrant, except an associated person who has no supervisory
duties, must diligently supervise the handling by its partners, officers, employees
and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar
function) of all commodity interest accounts carried, operated, advised or
introduced by the registrant and all other activities of its partners, officers,
employees and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a
similar function) relating to its business as a Commission registrant.

A violation under Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2014), is an independent
violation for which no underlying violation is necessary. See Jn re Collins, [1996-1998 Transfer
Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4 27,194 at 45,744 (CFTC Dec. 10, 1997).

A violation of Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2014), is demonstrated by showing
either that: (1) the registrant’s supervisory system was generally inadequate; or (2) the registrant
failed to perform its supervisory duties diligently. Jn re Murlas Commodities, [1994-1996
Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L Rep. (CCH) § 26,485 at 43,161 (CFTC Sept. 1, 1995); In re
GNP Commodities, Inc., [1990-1992 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) { 25,360 at
39,219 (CFTC Aug. 11, 1992) (providing that, even if an adequate supervisory system is in
place, Regulation 166.3 can still be violated if the supervisory system is not diligently
administered), aff'd sub nom. Monieson v. CFTC, 996 F.2d 852 (7th Cir.); In re Paragon Futures
Assoc., (1990-1992 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4 25,266 at 38,850 (CFTC Apr.
1, 1992) (“The focus of any proceeding to determine whether Rule 166.3 has been violated will
be on whether [a] review [has] occurred and, if it did, whether it was diligent”); Samson Refining
Co. v. Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc. [1987-1990 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH)

{ 24,596 at 36,566 (CFTC Feb. 16 1990) (noting that, under Regulation 166.3, an FCM has a
“duty to develop procedures for the detection and deterrence of possible wrongdoing by its
agents”)(internal quotation omitted). Evidence of violations that “should be detected by a
diligent system of supervision, either because of the nature of the violations or because the
violations have occurred repeatedly” is probative of a failure to supervise. Jn re Paragon
Futures Assoc., | 25,266 at 38,850; CFTC v. Sidoti, 178 F.3d 1132, 1137 (11th Cir. 1999)
(defendant was liable for failure to supervise because he “knew of specific instances of
misconduct, yet failed to take reasonable steps to correct the problems”).

Further, while the absence of a written policy or formal training on every issue does not
constitute a failure to supervise, Regulation 166.3 requires all registered FCMs to diligently
supervise all activities of its officers, employees, and agents relating to its business as an FCM.
See 17 C.F .R. § 166.3 (2014). Thus, an FCM may violate Regulation 166.3 even if it does not
violate any specific supervisory requirement imposed by either statutory provision or regulatory
rulemaking and “a showing that the registrant lacks an adequate supervisory system, standing
alone, can be sufficient” to demonstrate a violation of Regulation 166.3. In re Paragon, § 25,266
at 38,850.

During the Relevant Period, FCStone had inadequate compliance policies and procedures
governing the transfer of positions between customer accounts held at FCStone, inadequate
training for its personnel on the circumstances of when such transfers may occur, and failed to
perform its supervisory duties diligently by permitting its employees to transfer approximately
$20 Million in gold and silver positions between two accounts that did not have the same
underlying beneficial ownership.

V. FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, FCStone
violated Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2014).

VI. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:

1. the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. ahearing;

3. all post-hearing procedures;

4. —_ judicial review by any court;

5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2014), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding;

7. any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the

entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulate(s) that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the

findings contained in this Order to which Respondent(s) has/have consented in the Offer;
E.

Consent(s), solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1. makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Regulation 166.3, 17
C.F.R. § 166.3 (2014);

2. orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R.
§ 166.3 (2014);

3. orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of One Hundred
Forty Thousand Dollars ($140,000), plus post-judgment interest; and

4. orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this
Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VII. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A,

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3
(2014);

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of One Hundred Forty
Thousand Dollars ($140,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the
“CMP Obligation”). Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the

Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C.

§ 1961 (2012). Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer,
U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If
payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be
made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address
below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables --- AMZ 340
DOT/FAA/MMAC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-5644

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

C. Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1, Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and
assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control shall take any action or
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or
conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this
Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision
shall affect Respondent’s: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal
positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondent and its successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to
ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under its authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

2. Cooperation with the Commission: Respondent shal! cooperate fully and
expeditiously with the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of
Enforcement, and any other governmental agency in this action, and in any
investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to the subject matter
of this action or any current or future Commission investigation related thereto.

3. Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by
the Commission of partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
remaining balance.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission

Christopher J. bane

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: May 1, 2015
