Cased LZ-2\00 18 7G4VMEP DeeiIe@ILOGH TBR GSOGHS Raye 1 of 14

 

 

USDC SDNY
DOCUMENT

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT ELECTRONICALLY FILED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK DOC #:
Tonnrmemennacennanannnnananancccacenenmmnnnmana manana eon x DATE FILED: {17 [(S
U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING : 12 Civ. 1873 (WHP) ~
COMMISSION, : ECF Case
Plaintiff,
CONSENT ORDER

FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION,

~against-
- CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY, AND
JOSEPH F, WELSH III, | OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF
: AGAINST DEFENDANT
Defendant. : JOSEPH F. WELSH II

IL INTRODUCTION

On March 14, 2012, Plaintiff U.S, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(Commission or CFTC) filed a Complaint against Joseph F. Welsh JI] (Welsh or Defendant)
seeking injunctive and other equitable relief for violations of the Commodity Exchange Act (Act),
7 ULS.C, §§ 1 ef seq.

il, CONSENTS AND AGREEMENTS

To effect settlement of all charges alleged in the Complaint against Defendant without a
trial on the merits or any further judicial proceedings, Defendant: |

1. Consents to the entry of this Consent Order for Permanent Injunction, Civil
Monetary Penalty, and Other Equitable Relief Against Defendant Joseph F, Welsh II] (Consent
Order);

2. Affirms that he has read and agreed to this Consent Order voluntarily and that no
promise, other than as specifically contained herein, or threat has been made by the Commission

or any membet, officer, agent, or representative thereof, or by any other person, to induce

consent to this Consent Order;

 

 
Cassell RecQoFe7SaVHPP Becanieanl06/1 HAROUISIOdAES Hee 2oifle

3, Acknowledges service upon him of the summons and Complaint;
4, Admits the jurisdiction of this Court over him and the subject matter of this action

pursuant to Section 6(c) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § [3a-1(2012);

5, Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission over the conduct and transactions at

issue in this action pursuant to the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 1 ef seq.;

6, Admits that venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6(c) of the

Act, 7 U.S.C, § 13a-1(e) (2012);

7. Waives:
a any and all claims that he may possess under the Equal Access to Justice

Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by the

Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission Regulations (Regulations), 17

C.FLR. 8§ 148.1 ef seg. (2014), relating to, or arising from, this action;

b, any and all claims that he may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§201-253, 110 Stat. 847,
857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112, 204-205 (2007),

relating to, or atising from, this action;

C, any claim of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this action or

the entry in this action of any order imposing a civil monetaty penalty or any other relief,

including this Consent Order; and
d, any and all rights of appeal from this action;

8, Consents to the continued jurisdiction of this Court over him for the purpose of

implementing and enforcing the terms and conditions of this Consent Order and for any other

 

 
Cavell Reel By AWHEP Beeurent106e1 FAREOSIGaIDS Hagecapflry

purpose relevant to this action, even if Defendant now or in the future resides outside the

jurisdiction of this Court;

9, Agrees that he will not oppose enforcement of this Consent Order by alleging that

it fails to comply with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and waives any

objection based thereon;

10. Agrees that neither he nor any of his agents or employees under his authority or
control shall take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
allegation in the Complaint or the Findings of Fact or Conclusions of Law in this Consent Order,
or creating or tending to create the impression that the Complaint or this Consent Order is
without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect
Defendant’s: (a) testimonial obligations, or (b) right to take legal positions in other proceedings
to which the Commission is not a party, Defendant shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure
that all of his agents and/or employees under his authority or contro! understand and comply with
this agreement;

11. By consenting to the entry of this Consent Order, Defendant neither admits nor
denies the allegations of the Complaint or the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law in this
Consent Order, except as to jurisdiction and venue, which he admits. Further, Defendant agrees
and intends that the allegations contained in the Complaint and all of the Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law contained in this Consent Order shall be taken as true and correct and be
given preclusive effect, without further proof, in the course of: (a) any cutrent or subsequent
bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or against Defendant; (b) any proceeding pursuant
to Section 8a of the Act, 7 U.S.C, § 12a (2012), and/or Part 3 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.

§§ 3.1 et seg. (2014); and/or (c) any proceeding to enforce the terms of this Consent Order;
Casee HL aaAOPSP3AnHPr DSeGHBARLOG-1 TRIO USSIO4AS Page caair ey

(2. Agrees to provide immediate notice to this Court and the Commission by certified

mail, in the manner required by paragraph 35 of Part VI of this Consent Order, of any

bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or against Defendant whether inside or outside the

United States; and

13. Agrees that no provision of this Consent Order shall in any way limit or impair
the ability of any other person or entity to seck any legal or equitable remedy against Defendant
in any other proceeding.

QT. BINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS

The Court, being fully advised in the premises, finds that there is good cause for the entry
of this Consent Order and that there is no just reason for delay. The Court therefore directs the
entry of the following Findings of Fact, Conclusion of Law, permanent injunction, and equitable
relief pursuant to Section 6(c) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(2012), as set forth herein,

A. Bindings of Fact
i, The Parties to This Consent Order

14, Plaintiff U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent
federal regulatory agency that is charged by Congress with the administration and enforcement
of the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 1 ef seq., and the Commission Regulations promulgated thereunder,

17 CER. §§ 1.1 ef seg. The Commission maintains its principal office at Three Lafayette
Centre, 1155 21" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.

15. Defendant Joseph F. Welsh IL resides in Northport, New York, From at least
June 2006 through May 2008 (the Relevant Period), Welsh was an associated person (AP) of MF
Global, Inc., a registered futures commission merchant (FCM) with its principal place of

business in New York, New York, At all times during the Relevant Period, as an AP of MF

 

 

 
Cassell decors 7 Sawer Deeanienn106?1 Aerecoeerd4ihs Aeagecscifit

Global, Welsh had the responsibility for, among other things, éntering orders for palladium and
platinum futures contracts on behalf of Christopher Louis Pia (Pia), a portfolio manager for
Moore Capital Management LLC (Moore Capital).

2, Other Relevant Individual

16. Chvistopher Louis Pia resides in North Castle, New York. During the Relevant
Period, Pia served as a portfolio manager of Moore Capital, which was a registered commodity

trading advisor (CTA). Pia was formerly registered as an AP of Moore Capital.

3. The New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) Palladium and Platinum
Futures Contracts

17, During the Relevant Period, palladium and platinum futures contracts traded on
the NYMEX, a contract market designated by the Commission for trading commodity futures
contracts. Both the NYMEX palladium and platinum futures contracts may be traded on the
NYMEX trading floor (also referred to as the trading pit) by open outery trading, with palladium
futures contracts trading from 8:30 a.m, to 1:00 p.m, Eastern Standard Time (EST) and platinum
futures contracts trading from 8:20 a.m. to 1:05 p.m. EST. Both NYMEX palladium and
platinum futures contracts also may be traded electronically on Globex, the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange’s electronic trading platform, Sunday through Friday from 6:00 p.m. to 5:15 p.m, EST
with a 45 minute break between 5:15 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. EST. During the Relevant Period, the

majority of trades in NYMEX palladium and platinum futures contracts were executed on

Globex, rather than in the trading pit.

18. During the Relevant Period, the settlement prices of both the NYMEX palladium
and platinum futures contracts were calculated based on the volume-weighted average price of
all transactions conducted both on the trading floor and on Globex, during the two-minute

closing period for the contracts, The closing period for trading palladium futures contracts is
CasBelT2<cMOERFSaVAPY DecarisanlOG?l ASRBHOISIO4AES Heyqne Gaile

from 12:58 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. EST, and the closing period for trading platinum futures contracts
is from 1:03 p,m, to 1:05 p.m. EST. Globex and the trading pit trade side-by-side through the
close. Trading continues on Globex after the close of trading in the pit.

19, ‘Trading in both contracts was relatively illiquid, and Welsh’s trading in both
futures contracts on the close on behalf of Pia frequently accounted for a significant portion of
the volume. Welsh’s tracing strategy took advantage of these key characteristics of the
palladium and platinum futures markets—thinly traded, illiquid, and volume-weighted average
settlement price calculations——to attempt to manipulate the daily settlement prices.

4. Welsh Attempted to Manipulate the Prices of NYMILX Palladium and
Platinum Futures Contracts

20, During the Relevant Period, Pia or his execution clerks entered orders to Welsh
with instructions to exert upward pressure on the prices of NYMEX palladium and platinum
futures contracts, While employed as an associated person at MF Global, Welsh engaged in a
trading strategy in an attempt to manipulate upward the settlement prices of the palladium and
platinum futures contracts.

21, During the Relevant Period, Welsh placed Pia’s market-on-close (MOC) buy
orders in palladium and platinum futures contracts through a NYMEX floor clerk. Pia’s buy
orders were relatively large orders for the relatively illiquid palladium and platinum futures
contract markets. Typically, Pia’s orders constituted a large percentage of the volume of trading
on the close. Welsh routinely submitted Pia’s MOC buy orders in palladium and platinum
futures contracts to a floor broker by telephone over a recorded line. Welsh placed MOC orders

with the floor clerk with directions that indicated that he wanted to push the settlement prices

higher.

 

 

 

 

 
Cassell 2ccoter Saver Deeoieaen0641 AaRsnus6/04i65 FPaige 7cof i

22. To effectuate the manipulative scheme, Welsh waited until the last five or ten
seconds of the closing periods of platinum and palladium futures contract trading to place Pia’s
buy orders with a floor clerk who worked in the NYMEX trading pit. Welsh engaged in this
trading strategy throughout the Relevant Period and did so with the intent to manipulate the

prices of platinum and palladium futures contracts, including the settlement prices of those

contracts,
B, Conclusions of Law

1. Jurisdiction and Venue

23, This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Section 6c(a) of the Act,

7 ULS.C. § 13a-1 (2012), which provides that whenever it shall appear to the Commission that
any person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a
violation of any provision of the Act or any tule, regulation, or order thereunder, the Commission
may bring an action in the proper district court of the United States to enjoin such act or practice,
or to enforce cornpliance with the Act or any rule, regulation or order thereunder.

24. Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 13a-L(e) (2012), because Defendant transacted business in this District, and certain of the
transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business in violation of the Act occurred within this
District,

2, Violations of the Act

25, By the conduct described in paragraphs 1 through 22 above, Defendant violated

Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2) (2006).
Casde ine <cHosseaavAPr Decaniean0671 FamsOOSSI04iiS Feayeteatliem

26. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, there is reasonable likelihood that
Defendant will continue to engage in the acts and practices alleged in the Complaint and in

similar acts and practices in violation of the Act.

IV, PERMANENT INJUNCTION
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

27, Based upon and in connection with the foregoing conduct, pursuant to Section 6c
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-f (2012), Defendant is permanently restrained, enjoined, and
prohibited from directly or indirectly engaging in conduct in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d), and
9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012). |

28. Defendant is also permanently restrained, enjoined, and prohibited from directly
or indirectly trading any palladium and platinum products on or subject to the rules of any
registered entity (as that term is defined in Section La(40) of the Act,7 U.S.C, § la(40) (2012)),
including but not limited to palladium and platinum futures contracts, options on palladium and
platinum futures contracts, or any platinum or palladium product regulated by the Commission.

29. Defendant shall also comply with the following provisions for a period of five (5)

years from the date of this Consent Order:

Defendant shall attend training programs on an annual basis, addressing

a.

the ethics, compliance, and legal requirements of the Act and Regulations,
including abusive and manipulative trading practices and indicators of
such practices. Defendant will create and maintain documentation that he
has fulfilled his compliance training; and

b, beginning one (1) year from the date of entry of this Consent Order,

Defendant shall submit a report to the Division of Enforcement of the

 

 

 

 
Casecli2eemOdBr2aviiPr Docanienti0G71 AsRSHOI6I04ITS Aegye@adt ie

Commission, on an annual basis, that details the steps taken to comply and

the results of his compliance with Paragraph 29a above.

V. CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED THAT:
A, Civil Monetary Penalty

30. Defendant shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($500,000) (CMP Obligation), plus post-judgment interest. Post-judgment
interest shall accrue on the CMP Obli gation beginning on the date of entry of this Consent Order
and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this
Consent Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012),

31. Defendant shall pay his CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be
made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the U.S,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S, MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-7262

Fax: (405) 954-1620
nikki. gibson@faa.gov

If payment by electronic funds transfer is chosen, Defendant shall contact Ms. Nikki Gibson or
her successor at the address above to receive payment instructions and shall fully comply with
those instructions, Defendant shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover

letter that identifies Defendant and the name and docket number of this proceeding. Defendant

9
GaSOeLi122eHOlSF Bayi DecanisAni1O61 insoOieid4ktS ARage lpi.

shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief

Financial Officer, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155

21° Street, NW, Washington, D.C, 20581,
B. Provision Related to Monetary Sanction
32. Partial Satisfaction: Any acceptance by the Commission of partial payment of
Defendant’s CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of his obligation to make further
payments pursuant to this Consent Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to
compel payment of any remaining. balance.
VIL MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

33. Notice: AU notices required to be given by any provision in this Consent Order
shall be sent certified mail, return receipt requested, as follows:
Notice to Commission:

Attention: Director of Enforcement

Division of Enforcement
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission

1155 21" Street, N.W,
Washington, D.C, 20581

Notice to Defendant:

David E. Mollon, Esq.

Law Offices of David E. Mollon
15 Susquehanna Avenue

Great Neck, N.Y. 11021

All such notices to the Commission shall reference the name and docket number of this action.

34, Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Defendant satisfies in full his CMP
Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Defendant shall provide written notice to the

Commission by certified mail of any change to his telephone number and mailing address within

ten (10) calendar days of the change.

10

 

 

 
CasecLirh2cemosersawirr Deeanienttlo671 AtnedIeIG4G5 Feageliaciits

35. Entire Agreement and Amendments: This Consent Order incorporates all of the
terms and conditions of the settlement among the parties hereto to date. Nothing shall serve to

amend or modify this Consent Order in any respect whatsoever, unless: (a) reduced to writing;
(b) signed by all parties hereto; and (c) approved by order of this Court,

36. — Invalidation: If any provision of this Consent Order or if the application of any
provision or circumstance is held invalid, then the remainder of this Consent Order and the

application of the provision to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected by the

holding.

37. Waiver: The failure of any party to this Consent Order to require performance of
any provision of this Consent Order shall in no manner affect the right of the party at a later time
to enforce the same or any other provision of this Consent Order. No waiver in one or more
instances of the breach of any provision contained in this Consent Order shall be deemed to be or
construed as a further or continuing waiver of such breach or waiver of the breach of any other
provision of this Consent Order.

38. Continuing Jurisdiction of this Court: This Court shall retain jurisdiction of this
action to ensure compliance with this Consent Order and for all other purposes related to this
action, including any motion by Defendant to modify or for relief from the terms of this Consent
Order.

39, Injunctive and Equitable Relief Provisions: The injunctive and equitable relief
provisions of this Consent Order shall be binding upon Defendant, upon any person under his
authority or control, and upon any petson who receives actual notice of this Consent Order, by

personal service, e-mail, facsimile, or otherwise insofar as he or she is acting in active concert or

participation with Defendant,

1]
Case S24008935NMPP DésaHIBAnL O61 ARBLQe/OditS Tangeliarny

40, Counterparts and Facsimile Execution: This Consent Order may be executed in
two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall
become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto
and delivered (by facsimile, e-mail, or otherwise) to the other party, it being understood that all
parties need not sign the same counterpart. Any counterpart or other signature to this Consent
Order that is delivered by any means shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and

valid execution and delivery by such party of this Consent Order,

41. Defendant understands that the terms of the Consent Order are enforceable
through contempt proceedings, and that, in any such proceedings he may not challenge the
validity of this Consent Order,

There being no just reason for delay, the Clerk of the Court is hereby directed to enter

this Consent Order,

IT IS SO ORDERED on this | T day of _ June , 2015,

 

nd Se
WILLIAM H. PAULBY III .
United States District Judge

12

 

 
CBSE ERLE COSY SNY yeUTEnt toe. FPP OR/O4G5 PRage debi

CONSENTED TO AND APPROVIED BY:

Low atl. Ls; le

 

 

J ostph Jt. Welsh TT Michael Sdlinsky
Chief Trial Attorney —
_ U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Date: S 2) fW 1155 21" Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20581

(202) 418-5384
msolinsky@eftc.gov

Date: _& / y LS

APPROVED AS TO FORME

oe
ma of
NS fe

er be

’ oe

“ ee o é

‘ a, fee a “a
acnaad

David Motion, Esq.

Law OkGees of David E, Mollon
15 Susquehanna Avenue

Great Neck, N.V. 11021

(347) 766-8529
dmollon@mollonlaw.com

 

13
CHASE ARETE BAI PF DEHHBIAOOT Rika 08/045 Page 14 of 14

 
