 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GOVERNMENT
EXHIBIT
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT no. ER CA214
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK. |
EXHIBIT ols ie

—-----——~—---~~~~-~+~-X NO.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA PLEA AGREEMENT

- against -

_ 18 CR 274 (DLD
SGA SOCIETE GENERALE
ACCEPTANCE, N.V.,
Defendant.

a x

The United States of America, by and through the Department of Justice, Criminal
Division, Fraud Section and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of
New York (collectively, the “Offices”’), and the Defendant SGA SOCIETE GENERALE
ACCEPTAN CE, N.V. (the “Defendant’”), by and through its undersigned attorneys, and through
its authorized representative, pursuant to authority granted by the Defendant’s Board of
Directors, hereby submit and enter into this plea agreement (the “Agreement”), pursuant to Rule
11(c)(1)(C) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. The terms and conditions of this
Agreement are as follows:

THE DEFENDANT'S AGREEMENT

1. The Defendant agrees to knowingly waive indictment and its right to challenge
venue in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, and pursuant to
Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(c)(1)(C), to plead guilty to a one-count criminal Information charging the

Defendant with one count of conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States, in

 
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is, to violate the anti-bribery
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), as amended, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78dd-2 and 78dd-3 (the “Information’”). The Defendant further agrees
to persist in that plea through sentencing and, as set forth below, to cooperate fully with the
Offices in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the
Statement of Facts attached hereto as Exhibit 2 (the “Statement of Facts”), and any entity or
individual referred to therein, as well as any and all matters related to corrupt payments, until
the later of the date upon which all investigations, prosecutions, and proceedings, including
those involving Société Générale S.A. (the “Parent Company”), the Defendant’s ultimate
parent company, arising out of such conduct are concluded, or the end of the term of the
Parent Company’s deferred prosecution agreement (the “Term’’), whichever is later.

2. The Defendant understands that, to be guilty of this offense, the following
essential elements of the offense must be satisfied:

a.  anunlawful agreement between two or more individuals to violate the

FCPA existed; specifically, as a “domestic concern,” as that term is defined in the FCPA, or
an agent of a “domestic concern,” or conspiring with 4 “domestic concern” or an agent of a
“domestic concern,” or as a “person,” as that term is defined in the FCPA, or an agent ofa
“person,” or conspiting with a “person” or an agent of a “person,” while in territory of the
United States, to make use of the mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate
commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of

the payment of any money, offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of the giving of

 
anything of value, to a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that all or a portion of
such money and thing of value would be and had been offered, given, and promised to a
foreign official, for purposes of: (4) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign official in
his or her official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and omit to do acts in
violation of the lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and

(iv) inducing such foreign official to use his or her influence with a foreign government and
agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and decisions of such
government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist the Defendant and its co-
conspirators in obtaining and retaining business for and with, and directing business to, any
person, contrary to Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-2 and 78dd-3;

b. the Defendant knowingly and willfully joined that conspiracy;

C. one of the members of the conspiracy knowingly committed or caused
to be committed, in the Eastern District of New York or elsewhere in the United States, at
least one of the overt acts charged in the Information; and

d. the overt acts were committed to further some objective of the
conspiracy.

3. The Defendant understands and agrees that this Agreement is between the
Offices and the Defendant and does not bind any other division, section, or office of the
Department of Justice or any other federal, state, or local prosecuting, administrative, or
regulatory authority. Nevertheless, the Offices will bring this Agreement and the nature and

quality of the conduct, cooperation and remediation of the Defendant and its Parent

 
Company, the Parent Company’s direct or indirect affiliates, subsidiaries, and joint ventures,
to the attention of other prosecuting authorities or other agencies, as well as debarment
authorities and Multilateral Development Banks (“MDBs”), if requested by the Defendant.
By agreeing to provide this information to such authorities, the Offices are not agrecing to
advocate on behalf of the Defendant or its Parent Company, but rather are agreeing to
provide facts to be evaluated independently by such authorities.

4. The Defendant agrees that this Agreement will be executed by an authorized
corporate representative. The Defendant further agrees that a resolution duly adopted by the
Defendant’s Board of Directors in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit 1
(“Certificate of Corporate Resolutions”) authorizes the Defendant to enter into this
Agreement and take all necessary steps to effectuate this Agreement, and that the signatures
on this Agreement by the Defendant and its counsel are authorized by the Defendant’s Board
of Directors, on behalf of the Defendant.

5. The Defendant agrees that it has the full legal right, power, and authority to
enter into and perform all of its obligations under this Agreement.

6. The Offices enter into this Agreement based on the individual facts and
circumstances presented by this case, the Parent Company, and the Defendant, including:

a. the Parent Company is entering into a deferred prosecution agreement
(the “DPA”) and has agreed to pay a total criminal penalty of $860,552,888, $522,815,079 of

which relates to the FCPA conduct described in the Statement of Facts;
\

b. the Defendant and the Parent Company did not voluntarily and timely
disclose to the Offices the conduct described in the Statement of Facts;

C. the Defendant and the Parent Company received substantial credit for
their cooperation with the Offices’ investigation, including (1) conducting a thorough and
robust internal investigation; (ii) collecting and producing voluminous evidence located in
other countries to the full extent permitted under applicable laws and regulations; and (111)
providing frequent and regular updates to the Offices as to the status of and facts learned
during the Parent Company’s internal investigation in a manner that both complied with
applicable laws and regulations and satisfied the Offices’ need to obtain this information in a
timely manner. The Defendant did not receive full credit on its cooperation because of issues
that resulted in a delay during the early stages of the investigation, which led the Offices,
without the assistance of the Company, to develop significant independent evidence of the
Defendant’s and the Parent Company’s misconduct;

d. the Defendant and the Parent Company engaged mn remedial measures,
including (i) separating from employees who participated in, or who had knowledge of, the
misconduct described in the Statement of Facts; (1i) creating a new anti-bribery and
corruption compliance program for the Parent Company, including implementing controls
specifically addressing the use of third-party intermediaries by the relevant business unit; and
(iii) enhancing anti-corruption training for all management and relevant employees;

e. the Defendant and the Parent Company provided to the Offices all

relevant facts known to them, including information about the individuals involved in the
conduct described in the Statement of Facts, to the full extent permitted under applicable
laws and regulations;

fi the Parent Company has enhanced and has committed to continuing to
enhance its compliance program and internal controls, including ensuring that its compliance
program satisfies the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C to the Parent Company’s
DPA;

g. based on the Parent Company’s remediation and the state of its
compliance program, and the Parent Company’s agreement to report to the United States as
set forth in Attachment C to the Parent Company’s DPA, the Offices determined that an
independent compliance monitor was unnecessary;

h. the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct, including, among other
things: (i) the lengthy timespan of the corrupt conduct; (ii) the high dollar value of the bribes
paid and the resulting illicit gains; (tii) the bribes were paid in a high-risk jurisdiction;

(iv) and the nature of the misconduct, including that high-level employees within a business
unit of the Parent Company’s investment bank were aware of, invoived in, or willfully
ignorant of the misconduct;

i. the Parent Company settled a civil dispute with the Libyan Investment Authority
(the “LIA”) concerning the allegations described in the FCPA portion of the Statement of Facts
and, in connection with the settlement, the Parent Company made a payment of approximately

$1.1 billion to the LIA; and
j- the Defendant and the Parent Company have agreed to continue to
cooperate with the Offices in any ongoing investigation of the conduct of the Defendant and
the Parent Company, their subsidiaries and affiliates, and their officers, directors, employees,
| agents, business partners, distributors, and consultants relating to violations of the FCPA.

k. Accordingly, after considering (a) through (j) above, the Defendant received
a discount of 20% off of the bottom of the otherwise-applicable U.S, Sentencing Guidelines
fine range with respect to the conduct described in the FCPA portion of the Statement of
Facts.

7. The Defendant agrees to abide by all terms and obligations of this Agreement
as described herein, including, but not limited to, the following:

a. to plead guilty as set forth in this Agreement;

b. to abide by all sentencing stipulations contained in this Agreement;

C. to appear, through its duly appointed representatives, as ordered for all -
court appearances, and obey any other ongoing court order in this matter, subject to
applicable U.S. and foreign laws, procedures, and regulations;

d. to commit no further crimes;,

e. to be truthful at all times with the Court;

f. to pay the applicable fine and special assessment;

g. to cooperate fully with the Offices as described in Paragraph 9; and

 
h. to cooperate with the Parent Company in fulfilling its obligation under
the DPA to implement a compliance and ethics program, as set forth in Attachment C to the
DPA.

8. Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a
particular transaction, the Defendant agrees that in the event that, during the Term, it
undertakes any change in corporate form, including if it sells, merges, or transfers business
operations that are material to the Defendant’s consolidated operations, or to the operations
of any subsidiaries or affiliates involved in the conduct described in the Statement of Facts,
as they exist as of the date of this Agreement, whether such sale is structured as a sale, asset
sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form, it shall include in any contract for
sale, merget, transfer, or other change in corporate form a provision binding the purchaser, or
any successor in interest thereto, to the obligations described in this Agreement. The
purchaser or successor in interest must also agree in writing that the Offices’ ability to
determine a breach under this Agreement is applicable in full force to that entity. The
Defendant agrees that the failure to include these provisions in the transaction will make any
such transaction null and void. The Defendant shall provide notice to the Offices at least
thirty (30) days prior to undertaking any such sale, merger, transfer, or other change in
corporate form. The Offices shall notify the Defendant prior to such transaction (or series of
transactions) if it determines that the transaction(s) will have the effect of circumventing or |
frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement. If at any time during the Term the

Defendant engages in a transaction(s) that has the effect of circumventing or frustrating the

 
enforcement purposes of this Agreement, the Offices may deem it a breach of this
Agreement pursuant to Paragraphs 22-25 of this Agreement. Nothing herein shall restrict the
Defendant from indemnifying (or otherwise holding harmless) the purchaser or successor in
interest for penalties or other costs arising from any conduct that may have occurred prior to
the date of the transaction, so long as such indemnification does not have the effect of |
circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as determined by
the Offices.

9, The Defendant shall cooperate fully with the Offices in any and all matters
relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of Facts, and any
individual or entity referred to therein, as well as any other matters related to possible corrupt
payments under investigation by the Offices at any time during the Term, subject to
applicable laws and regulations, until the later of the date upon which all investigations and
prosecutions arising out of such conduct are concluded, or the end of the Term. At the
request of the Offices, and subject to applicable laws and regulations, the Defendant shall
also cooperate fully with other domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory
authorities and agencies, as well as the MDBs, in any investigation of the Defendant, its
Parent Company or its affiliates, or any of its present or former officers, directors,
employees, agents, and consultants, or any other party, in any and all matters relating to
possible corrupt payments under investigation by the Offices at any time during the Term.
The Defendant agrees that its cooperation. pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to

applicable laws and regulations and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

 
a. The Defendant shall truthfully disclose all factual information not
protected by a valid claim of attorney-client privilege or the attorney work product doctrine
with respect to its activities, those of its Parent Company and affiliates, and those of its
present and former directors, officers, employees, agents, and consultants, including any
evidence or allegations and internal or external investigations, concerning all matters relating
to the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of Facts and other conduct
under investigation by the Offices about which the Defendant has any knowledge or about
which the Offices may inquire. This obligation of truthful disclosure includes, but is not
limited to, the obligation of the Defendant to provide to the Offices, upon request, any
document, record or other tangible evidence about which the Offices may inquire of the
Defendant

b. Upon request of the Offices, the Defendant shall designate
knowledgeable employees, agents or attorneys to provide to the Offices the information and
materials described in Paragraph 9(a) above on behalf of the Defendant. It is further
understood that the Defendant must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate
information.

C, The Defendant shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews
or testimony, as requested by the Offices, present or former officers, directors, employees,
agents and consultants of the Defendant and the Parent Company. This obligation includes,
but is not limited to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, as well

as interviews with domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities.

10

 
Cooperation under this Paragraph shall include identification of witnesses who, to the
knowledge of the Defendant, may have material information regarding the matters under
investigation.

d. With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records or
other tangible evidence provided to the Offices pursuant to this Agreement, the Defendant
consents to any and all disclosures, subject to applicable law and regulations, to other
governmental authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign
government, as well as the MDBs, of such materials as the Offices, in their sole discretion,
shall deem appropriate. |

10. During the term of the cooperation obligations provided for in Paragraph 9 of
the Agreement, should the Defendant learn of any evidence or allegation of conduct that may
constitute a violation of the FCPA anti-bribery provisions had the conduct occurred within
the jurisdiction of the United States, the Defendant shall promptly report such evidence or
allegation to the Offices. At the end of the term of the cooperation obligations provided for
in Paragraph 9 of the Agreement, the Defendant, by a duly authorized representative for the
Defendant or the Parent Company, will certify to the Offices that the Defendant has met its
disclosure obligations pursuant to this Paragraph. Such certification will be deemed a
material statement and representation by the Defendant to the executive branch of the United
States for purposes of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001, and it will be deemed to

have been made in the Eastern District of New York.

il

 
11. The Defendant agrees that any fine or restitution imposed by the Court will be
due and payable in full at the time of the entry of judgment following such sentencing
hearing, and the Defendant will not attempt to avoid or delay payment. The Defendant
further agrees to pay the Clerk of the Court for the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of New York the mandatory special assessment of $400 per count within ten
business days from the date of sentencing.

THE UNITED STATES’ AGREEMENT

12. Inexchange for the guilty plea of the Defendant and the complete fulfillment
of all of its obligations under this Agreement, the Offices agree they will not file additional
criminal charges against the Defendant or any of the Defendant’s direct or indirect. affiliates,
subsidiaries, or joint ventures relating to (a) any of the conduct described in the Statement of
Facts, or (b) information made known to the Offices prior to the date of this Agreement,
except for the charges specified in the DPA between the Offices and the Parent Company.
This Paragraph does not provide any protection against prosecution for any crimes, including
corrupt payments or other FCPA violations, made in the future by the Defendant, the Parent
Company, or by any of the Defendant’s officers, directors, employees, agents or consultants,
whether or not disclosed by the Defendant pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. This
Agreement does not close or preclude the investigation or prosecution of any natural persons,
including any officers, directors, employees, agents, or consultants of the Defendant, the |
Parent Company, or the Defendant’s direct or indirect affiliates, subsidiaries, or joint

ventures, who may have been involved in any of the matters set forth in the Information, the

12

 
Statement of Facts, or in any other matters. The Defendant agrees that nothing in this
Agreement is intended to release the Defendant from any or all of the Defendant’s excise and
income tax liabilities and reporting obligations for any income not properly reported and/or
legally or illegally obtained or derived.
FACTUAL BASIS

13. The Defendant is pleading guilty because the Defendant is guilty of the charge
contained in the Information. The Defendant admits, agrees, and stipulates that the factual
allegations set forth in the Information and the FCPA portion of the Statement of Facts are
true and correct, that it is responsible for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and
agents described in the Information and the FCPA portion of the Statement of Facts, and that
the Information and the FCPA portion of the Statement of Facts accurately reflect the
Defendant’s criminal conduct.

THE DEFENDANT’S WAIVER OF RIGHTS, INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO APPEAL

14. Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure N@ and Federal Rule of Evidence 410
limit the admissibility of statements made in the course of plea proceedings or plea
discussions in both civil and criminal proceedings, if the guilty plea is later withdrawn. The
Defendant expressly warrants that it has discussed these rules with its counsel and
understands them. Solely to the extent set forth below, the Defendant voluntarily waives and
gives up the rights enumerated in E ederal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11(f) and. Federal Rule
of Evidence 410. Specifically, the Defendant understands and agrees that any statements that

it makes in the course of its guilty plea or in connection with the Agreement are admissible

13
against it for any purpose in any U.S. federal criminal proceeding if, even though the Offices
have fulfilled all of their obligations under this Agreement and the Court has imposed the
agreed-upon sentence, the Defendant nevertheless withdraws its guilty plea. |

15. The Defendant is satisfied that the Defendant’s attorneys have rendered
effective assistance. The Defendant understands that by entering into this Agreement, the
Defendant surrenders certain rights as provided in this Agreement. The Defendant
understands that the rights of criminal defendants include the following:

a. the right to plead not guilty and to persist in that plea;

b. the right to a jury trial;

c. the right to be represented by counsel — and if necessary have the court
appoint counsel — at trial and at every other stage of the proceedings;

d. the right at trial to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses, to be
protected from compelled self-incrimination, to testify and present evidence, and to compel
the attendance of witnesses; and

e. pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742, the right to
appeal the sentence imposed. Nonetheless, the Defendant knowingly waives the right to
appeal or collaterally attack the conviction and any sentence within the statutory maximum
described below (or the manner in which that sentence was determined) on the grounds set
forth in Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742, or on any eround whatsoever except
those specifically excluded in this Paragraph, in exchange for the concessions made by the

United States in this Agreement. This Agreement does not affect the rights or obligations of

14

 
the United States as set forth in Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742(b). The
Defendant also knowingly waives the right to bring any. collateral challenge challenging
either the conviction, or the sentence imposed in this case. The Defendant hereby waives all
rights, whether asserted directly or by a representative, to request or receive from any
department or agency of the United States any records pertaining to the investigation or
prosecution of this case, including without limitation any records that may be sought under
the Freedom of Information Act, Title 5, United States Code, Section 552, or the Privacy
Act, Title 5, United States Code, Section 552a. The Defendant waives all defenses based on
the statute of limitations and venue with respect to any prosecution related to the conduct
described in the Statement of Facts or the Information, including any prosecution that is not
time-barred on the date that this Agreement is signed in the event that: (a) the conviction is
later vacated for any reason; (b) the Defendant violates this Agreement; or (c) the plea 1s later
withdrawn, provided such prosecution is brought within one year of any such vacation of
conviction, violation of agreement, or withdrawal of plea plus the remaining time period of
the statute of limitations as of the date that this Agreement is signed. The Offices are free to
take any position on appeal or any other post-judgment matter. The parties agree that any
challenge to the Defendant’s sentence that is not foreclosed by this Paragraph will be limited
to that portion of the sentencing calculation that is inconsistent with (or not addressed by)
this waiver. Nothing in the foregoing waiver of appellate and collateral review rights shall
preclude the Defendant from raising a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel in an

appropriate forum.

15

 
PENALTY

16. The statutory maximum sentence that the Court can impose for a violation of
Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, is: a fine of $500,000 or twice the gross pecuniary
gain or gross pecuniary loss resulting from the offense, whichever is greatest, Title 15, |
United States Code, Section 78ff(a) and Title 18, United States Code, Section 3571(c), (d);
five years’ probation, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3561(c)(1); and a mandatory
special assessment of $400 per count, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3013(a)(2)(B),
_ and restitution as ordered by the Court. In this case, the parties agree that the gross
pecuniary gain resulting from the offense is $522,815,079. Therefore, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
§ 3571(d), the maximum fine that may be imposed is $1,045,630,158 per offense.

SENTENCING RECOMMENDATION

17. The parties agree that pursuant to United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220
(2005), the Court must determine an advisory sentencing guideline range pursuant to the
United States Sentencing Guidelines. The Court will then determine a reasonable sentence
within the statutory range after considering the advisory sentencing guideline range and the
factors listed in Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553(a). The parties’ agreement herein
to any guideline sentencing factors constitutes proof of those factors sufficient to satisfy the
applicable burden of proof. The Defendant also understands that 1f the Court accepts this —

Agreement, the Court is bound by the sentencing provisions in Paragraph 16.

16
18. The Offices and the Defendant agree that a faithiul application of the United States
Sentencing Guidelines (U.S.8.G.) to determine the applicable fine range yields the following
analysis:

a. The 2016 U.S.S.G. are applicable to this matter. |

b. Offense Level. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 2C1.1, the total offense level is 46,
calculated as follows:

(a)(2) Base Offense Level 12

(b)(1) Multiple Bribes | - 42

(b)(2) Value of benefit received more than +28
$250,000,000

(b)(3) High-Level Official Involved +4

TOTAL 46

c. Base Fine.! Based upon USSG § 8C2.4(a)(1), the base fine is
$522,815,079 (as the pecuniary gain exceeds the fine in the Offense Level
Fine Table, namely $72,500,000)

d. Culpability Score. Based upon USSG § 8C2.5, the culpability score is 3,
calculated as follows:

(a) Base Culpability Score 5
(g)(1) The organization fully cooperated in the

investigation, and clearly demonstrated recognition
and affirmative acceptance of responsibility for its

 

criminal conduct ~2
TOTAL | 30
Calculation of Fine Range:
Base Fine $522,815,079

 

1 Because the conduct predates 2015, the 2014 Sentencing Guidelines have been used for the fine calculation. See
Guidelines Manual § 8C2.4(e)(1} (Nov. 2016).

17
Multipliers — 0.6 (min)/1.20 (max)

Fine Range $313,689,047 (min)/
$627,378,095 (max)

19.’ Pursuant to the DPA, the Parent Company, directly or through an affiliate, has
_ agreed to pay a penalty of $585,552,888 relating to the same underlying conduct described
herein. Thus, pursuant to Rule 11(c)(1)(C) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the
Offices and the Defendant agree that the following represents the appropriate disposition of
the case:

a. Disposition. Pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(c)(1)(C), the Offices and
the Defendant agree that the appropriate disposition of this case is as set forth above, and
agree to recommend jointly that the Court, at a hearing to be scheduled at an agreed-upon
time, impose a sentence requiring the Defendant to pay a criminal fine of $500,000 payable
in full within ten business days of such sentencing hearing (the “recommended sentence”).
The parties agree that, in light of the Parent Company’s DPA, which requires the Parent
Company to pay a total monetary penalty of $860,552,888 (including a contemplated
$500,000 fine on behalf of the Defendant) as a result of the misconduct committed by both
the Parent Company and the Defendant, as well as factors described in the Parent Company’s
DPA, a $500,000 fine should be imposed on the Defendant.

b. Mandatory Special Assessment. The Defendant or one of its affiliates

shall pay to the Clerk of the Court for the United States District Court for the Eastern District

18

 
of New York within ten (10) days of the time of sentencing the mandatory special
assessment of $400 per count.

c. Restitution, As of the date of this Agreement, the Offices and the
Defendant have not identified any victim qualifying for restitution and thus are not
requesting an order of restitution. The Defendant recognizes and agrees, however, that
restitution is imposed at the sole discretion of the Court. The Defendant agrees to pay
restitution as part of this Agreement in the event restitution is ordered by the Court.

20. This Agreement is presented to the Court pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P.
11(c)(1)(C). The Defendant understands that, if the Court rejects this Agreement, the Court
must: (a) inform the parties that the Court rejects the Agreement; (b) advise the Defendant’s
counsel that the Court is not required to follow the Agreement and afford the Defendant the
opportunity to withdraw its plea; and (c) advise the Defendant that if the plea is not
withdrawn, the Court may dispose of the case less favorably toward the Defendant than the
Agreement contemplated. The Defendant further understands that if the Court refuses to
accept any provision of this Agreement, neither party shall be bound by the provisions of the
Agreement.

21. The Offices waive the preparation of a Pre-Sentence Investigation Report and
intend to seek a sentencing by the Court immediately following the Rule 11 hearing in the
absence of a Pre-Sentence Investigation Report. The Defendant understands that the
decision whether to proceed with the sentencing proceeding without a Pre-Sentence

Investigation Report is exclusively that of the Court. In the event the Court directs the

19
preparation of a Pre-Sentence Investigation Report, the Offices will fully inform the preparer
of the Pre-Sentence Investigation Report and the Court of the facts and law related to the
Defendant’s case.
BREACH OF AGREEMENT
22. If during the Term, the Defendant (a) commits any felony under United States
federal law; (b) provides in connection with this Agreement deliberately false, incomplete, or
misleading information; (c) fails to cooperate as set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 10 of this
Agreement; (d) commits any acts that, had they occurred within the jurisdictional reach of
the FCPA, would be a violation of the FCPA; or (e) otherwise fails specifically to perform or
to fulfill completely each of the Defendant’s obligations under the Agreement, regardless of
whether the Offices become aware of such a breach after the term of the Agreement, the
Defendant shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of
which the Offices have knowledge, including, but not limited to, the charges in the
“Information described in Paragraph 1, which may be pursued by the Offices in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of New York or any other appropriate venue.
Determination of whether the Defendant has breached the Agreement and whether to pursue
prosecution of the Defendant shall be in the Offices’ sole discretion. Any such prosecution
may be premised on information provided by the Defendant. Any such prosecution relating
’ to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts or relating to conduct known to

the Offices prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred by

the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement may be

20

 
commenced against the Defendant, notwithstanding the expiration of the statute of
limitations, between the signing of this Agreement and the expiration of the Term plus one
year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the Defendant agrees that the statute of limitations
with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-barred on the date of the signing of this
Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. The Defendant gives up all defenses
based on the statute of limitations, any claim of pre-indictment delay, or any speedy trial
claim with respect to any such prosecution or action, except to the extent that such defenses

‘ existed as of the date of the signing of this Agreement. In addition, the Defendant agrees that
the statute of limitations as to any violation of federal law that occurs during the term of the
cooperation obligations provided. for in Paragraph 9 of the Agreement will be tolled from the
date upon which the violation occurs until the earlier of the date upon which the Offices are
made aware of the violation or the duration of the Term plus five years, and that this period
shall be excluded from any calculation of time for purposes of the application of the statute
of limitations.

23. Inthe event the Offices determine that the Defendant has breached this
Agreement, the Offices agree to provide the Defendant with written notice of such breach
prior to instituting any prosecution resulting from such breach. Within thirty (30) days of
receipt of such notice, the Defendant shall have the opportunity to respond to the Offices in
writing to explain the nature and circumstances of such breach, as well as the actions the
Defendant has taken to address and remediate the situation, which explanation the Offices

shall consider in determining whether to pursue prosecution of the Defendant.

21

 
24. Inthe event that the Offices determine that the Defendant has breached this —
Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Defendant, or the Parent
Company, to the Offices or to the Court, including the Information and the Statement of
Facts, and any testimony given by the Defendant before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal,
or at any legislative hearings, whether prior or subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads
derived from such statements or testimony, shall be admissible in evidence in any and all
criminal proceedings brought by the Offices against the Defendant; and (b) the Defendant
shall not assert any claim under the United States Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal
rule that any such statements or testimony made by or on behalf of the Defendant prior or
subsequent to this Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom, should be suppressed or are
otherwise inadmissible. The decision whether conduct or statements of any current director,
officer or employee, or any person acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, the Defendant,
will be imputed to the Defendant for the purpose of determining whether the Defendant has
violated any provision of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the Offices.

25. The Defendant acknowledges that the Offices have made no repfesentations,
assurances, of promises concerning what sentence may be imposed by the Court if the
Defendant breaches this Agreement and this matter proceeds to judgment. The Defendant
further acknowledges that any such sentence is solely within the discretion of the Court and

that nothing in this Agreement binds or restricts the Court in the exercise of such discretion.

22

 
PUBLIC STATEMENTS BY THE DEFENDANT

26. The Defendant expressly agrees that it shall not, through present or future
attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents or any other person authorized to speak for
the Defendant make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise, contradicting the
acceptance of responsibility by the Defendant set forth above or the facts described in the
Information and the FCPA portion of the Statement of Facts. Any such contradictory
statement shall, subject to cure rights of the Defendant described below, constitute a breach |
of this Agreement, and the Defendant thereafter shall be subject to prosecution as set forth in
Paragraphs 22-25 of this Agreement. The decision whether any public statement by any
such person contradicting a fact contained in the Information or the FCPA portion of the
- Statement of Facts will be imputed to the Defendant for the purpose of determining whether
it has breached this Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the Offices. If the Offices
determine that a public statement by any such person contradicts in whole or in part a
statement contained in the Information or the FCPA portion of the Statement of Facts, the
Offices shall so notify the Defendant, and the Defendant may avoid a breach of this
Agreement by publicly repudiating such statement(s) within five (5) business days after
notification. The Defendant shall be permitted to raise defenses and to assert affirmative
claims in other proceedings relating to the matters set forth in the Information and the
Statement of Facts.provided that such defenses and claims do not contradict, in whole or in
part, a statement contained in the Information or the Statement of Facts. This Paragraph does

not apply to any statement made by any present or former officer, director, employee, or

23

 
agent of the Defendant in the course of any criminal, regulatory, or civil case initiated against
such individual, unless such individual is speaking on behalf of the Defendant.

27. The Defendant agrees that if it, the Parent Company, or any of the
Defendant’s direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates issues a press release or holds any
press conference in connection with this Agreement, the Defendant shall first consult the
Offices to determine (a) whether the text of the release or proposed statements at the press
conference are true and accurate with respect to matters between the Offices and the
Defendant; and (b) whether the Offices have any objection to the release or statement.

COMPLETE AGREEMENT

28. This document states the full extent of the Agreement between the parties.
There are no other promises or agreements, express or implied. Any modification of this
Agreement shall be valid only if set forth in writing tn a supplemental or revised plea

agreement signed by all parties.

24

 

 
AGREED:

FOR SGA SOCDI¥ SRALE ACCEPTANCE, N.V.:

 

 

Nicolas Brooke
Managing Director, General Counsel
for Litigation and Investigations

FOR THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE:

RICHARD P. DONOGHUE
United States Attorney
Eastern District of New York

AL

David C. Pitluck
James P. McDonald
Assistant U.S. Attorneys

~ ;
Date: June f ,O0K

25

(cw COL.

 

Keith D. Krakaur, Esq.

Charles F. Walker, Esq.

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP.

Counsel to SGA SOCIETE GENERALE
ACCEPTANCE, N.V

S\N

 

Sean Hecker, Esq. .

Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
Counsel to SGA SOCIETE GENERALE °
ACCEPTANCE, N.V

SANDRA L. MOSER

Acting Chief

Criminal Division, Fraud Section
U.S. Department of Justice

oh

Gerald M. Moody, Jr.
Dennis R. Kibm
Trial Attorneys

 
EXHIBIT 1.
CERTIFICATE OF CORPORATE RESOLUTIONS
A copy of the executed Certificate of Corporate Resolutions is annexed hereto as

“Exhibit 1.”

 
dated 9 May 2078

RESOLUTIONS OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF
SGA SOCIETE GENERALE ACCEPTANCE N.Y,

THE UNDERSIGNED, -

{1) TMF Curacao N.V., a company with {limited Ilability (naamloze venncotschap)
incorporated under the laws of the former Netherlands Antilles and currently existing
under the laws of Curagag, having its registered office (statutaire zetel} on Curacao,
and lts registered address at Pietermaai 15, Willemstad, Curagao, registered with the
Commercial Register of the Curacao Chamber of Commerce & Industry under number -
72307;

(2) Mrs. Maylis Beatrice Dubarry, born in Angouleme, France on 3 December 1977;
(3) Mr. Olivier Paul Hartemann, born In Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France, on 31 May 1963; and
{4} Mr. Eric Michel Yves Richard Rabin, born in Nantes, France on 28 November 1963.

being all members of the Management Board of SGA Société Générale Acceptance N.V., a
company with limited liabliity (naamloze vennootschap) incorporated under the laws of the
former Netherlands Antilles and currently existing under the laws of. Curagao, having Its
registered office (statutalre zetel) on Curacao, and its registered address at Pietermaai 15,
Willemstad, Curacao, registered with the Commercial Register of the Curagao Chamber of
Commerce & Industry under number 45500 (the "Company");

WHEREAS:

(A) The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company Société Générale, a French
limited liability company (société anonyme), the registered office of which is located at
29, boulevard Haussmann, 75009 Paris (France), and registered with the Trade and
Companies Register (registre du commerce et des sociétés) of Paris under number 552
120 222 (“Société Générale”);

(B) The Company has been engaged in discussions with the United States Department of
Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”) and the United States
Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York (the “Office”) regarding issues
arising in relation to certain improper payments to foreign officials to assist in
obtaining business for the Company;

{C) The Management Board of the Campany has received a certificate from the Group

General Secretary of Société Générale, confirming that (i) it is in the best interest of,
and has the utmost importance for, the Société Générale Group that the Company

4

 

 
(D}

(E)

iy

adopt the resolutions herein, and each of the obligations set forth herein, be fully -

performed in a timely manner, and (li) the Société Générale Group looks forward to
receiving confirmation that each of the obligations have been fully performed, and
receiving copies of the executed documents;

In order to resolve such discussions, it is proposed that the Company enter into a
certain agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office; and

The Company has engaged Sean Hecker of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and Keith
Krakaur of Skadden, Arps, State, Meagher & Flom LLP, which firms have advised ‘the
Management Board of the Company of the Company’s rights, possible defenses, the
U.S. Séntencing Guidelines provisions, and the consequences of, and alternatives to
entering into such agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office.

HEREBY RESOLVE:
1 that the Company:
(a} acknowledges the filing of the one-count Information charging the Company with a

(b)

(c)

(d}

2

violation of 18 U.S.C, § 371;

waives indictment on such charges and enters into a plea agreement with the Fraud
Section and the Office (the “Plea Agreement);

admits the court's jurisdiction over the Company and the subject matter of such action
and consents to the judgment therein;

accepts all terms and conditions of the Plea Agreement, Including but not limited to, (i)
a knowing waiver of its rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth Amendment to the
United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161, and Federal
Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b); and (il) a knowing waiver, for purposes of the Plea
Agreement and any charges by the United States arising out of the conduct described
in the Statement of Facts attached to the Plea Agreement, of any objection with
respect to venue and consents to the filing of the information, as provided under the
terms of the Plea Agreement, in the United States District Court for the Eastern -District
of New York; and (iii) a knowing waiver of any defenses based on the statute of
limitations for any prasecution relating to the conduct described in the Statement of
Facts or relating to the conduct known to the Fraud Section and the Offlce prior to the
date on which the Plea Agreement was signed that is not time-barred by the applicable
statute of limitations on the date of the signing of the Plea Agreement; and

to authorise and direct the Chief Executive Office of Société Générale, Frédéric Oudéa,
with the right to subdelegate to the Group General Counsel and the General Counsel for

 
Litigation and Investigations of Saciété Générale, Dominique Bourrinet and Nicolas
Brooke, respectively, either individually or collectively, as well as each managing
director of the Company, with full power of substitution, acting Individually on behalf of
the Company, to (i) sign the Plea Agreement on behalf of the Company and {ii} to attend
any related court hearings and {iii) to do all such acts and things which the relevant
person deems necessary or useful in relation to entering the guilty plea;

AND HEREBY FURTHERMORE:

3 confirm that each of the undersigned has duly noted and carefully considered the
terms and conditions of the’ Plea Agreement and that it was acknowledged hy the
undersigned that It was in their good faith and judgement in the best interest of the
Company to enter into the guilty plea;

' 4 confirm that they have no personal conflict of interest with the Company in respect of

the Plea Agreement;

5 confirm that the authority to adopt the resolutions described herein above !s not
subject to approval of the general meeting of shareholders or the board of supervisory
directors of the Company; and

6 these resolutions shall have immediate effect.

These written resolutions may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same document.
The exchange of coples of these written resolutions and of signature pages by electronic mail
in “portable document format” (“pdf”) form, or by any other electronic means shall
constitute effective execution and delivery of these written resolutions and may be used in
lieu of the original for all purposes.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned have executed these resolutions on the réspective
dates set out below. .
TMF Curagao N.V.

By: £. Rakers Zig

Date: 9 May 2018

 

 

 
(iy

M8. Dubarry
pate: fe} AA JOS [Jaap

[jb

O.P, Hartetann
Date: {s] {I [Ss [20%

NEY, In
Tid 4 /S/ lh

 

 

 
CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL

We are counsel for SGA SOCIETE GENERALE ACCEPTANCE, N.V. (the
“‘Defendant”) in the matter covered by the plea agreement between the Defendant and the
' United States of America, by and through the Department of Justice, Criminal Division,
Fraud Section, and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York
(the “Agreement’”). In connection with such representation, we have examined relevant
documents and have discussed the terms of the Agreement with the Board of Directors.
Based on our review of the foregoing materials and discussions, we are of the opinion that
the representative of the Defendant has been duly authorized to enter into the Agreement on
behalf of the Defendant and that the Agreement has been duly and validly authorized,
executed, and delivered on behalf of the Defendant and is a valid and binding obligation of
the Defendant. Further, we have carefully reviewed the terms of the Agreement with the
Board of Directors and the officers of the Defendant. We have fully advised them of the
rights of the Defendant, of possible defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines’ provisions and of

the consequences of entering into the Agreement.

 
To our knowledge, the decision of the Defendant to enter into the Agreement, based on the

authorization of the Board of Directors, is an informed and voluntary one.

Date} ( By: (. ( (oA. .

Keith D. Krakaur, Esq.

Charles F. Walker, Esq.

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Counsel to SGA SOCIETE GENERALE

ACCEPTANCE, N.V

SecA

Sean Hecker, Esq.
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
Counsel to SGA SOCIETE GENERALE

ACCEPTANCE, N.V.
EXHIBIT 2
STATEMENT OF FACTS

The following Statement of Facts is incorporated by reference as part of the Plea ,
Agreement (the “Agreément”) between the United States Department of Tustice, Criminal —
Division, Fraud Section, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New -
York (collectively, the “Offices”) and the defendant SGA Société Générale Acceptance,
N.V. (“SGA”). SGA hereby agrees and stipulates that the following information is true and
accurate. SGA admits, accepts, and. acknowledges that it is responsible for the acts of its
‘officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth below. The following facts took place
during the relevant time frame and establish beyond a reasonable doubt the charges set forth
in the Information attached to the Agreement:
L THE FCPA SCHEME

1. Société Générale, S.A. (“Société Générale” or the “Company”) was a financial
institution and global financial services company headquartered in Paris, France, which
maintained a subsidiary financial services company and a branch located in New York, New
York. Société Générale Corporate and Investment Bank (“SG CIB”) was a division of the
Company that offered invesiment-banking services. Société Générale was a “person” as that
. term is used in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code,
Section 78dd-3(a) and (H(1).

2. At the start of the relevant period, SG CIB’s equities and derivatives business

operated under the name Dérivés Actions Indices (derivatives shares indices), or “DEAL.”

Later in the relevant period, the equities and derivatives business retained the DEAT name

A-l |.
but became a unit of Global Equities & Derivatives Solutions (“GEDS”) and later, a unit of
the Global Markets business (“MARK”) referred to as Solutions (“MARK/SOL”. Société
Générale’s equities and derivatives business was comprised of a number of units, each .
catrying out a particular, but coordinated, role including trading desks, sales, engineering,
and research. .

3. Lyxor Asset Management S.A.S. (“Lyxor”) was a French limited liability
company and a Société Générale subsidiary that specialized in providing asset management
services and an asset management platform. As described below, a number of the structured
investments in which Libyan state institutions invested had referenced assets managed by
Lyxor on its platform.

4, SGA, a company organized under the laws of Curacao, was a Société Générale
subsidiary that issued structured notes, including those purchased by Libyan state
institutions. Structured notes are complicated securities that typically combine a debt
obligation and a derivative component. |

5. The “Libyan Intermediary,” an individual whose identity is known to the
United States and the Company, was a dual Libyan and Ttalian national who resided in Dubai
and London during the relevant period. The Libyan Intermediary traveled to the United
States and was a “person” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code,
Section 78dd-3(a) and (f)(1).

6. The “Panamanian Company,” an entity whose identity is known to the United
States and the Company, was a company incorporated under the laws of Panama and

controlled by the Libyan Intermediary.
, A-2
7, “SG Employee 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the United States
and the Company, was an employes of Société Générale and assisted SGA in issuing notes to
Libyan financial investors.

8. “SG Bmployee 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the United States
and the Company, was an employee of Société Générale and assisted SGA i in issuing notes to
Libyan financial investors. SG Employee 2 traveled on at least two occasions to the United
States during the relevant time period, and was a “person” and an agent of a “person,” as
those terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-3(a) and (f)(1).

9, “SG Employee 3,” an individual whose identity is known to the United States
and the Company, was an employee of Société Générale who was in charge of a business
unit within GEDS.

10. The “Investment Management Firm,” an entity whose identity i is known to the
United States and the Company, was a U.S.-headquartered investment management firm that
provided investment advisory and financial services to Libyan government investors. The
Investment Management Firm was a “domestic concern” within the meaning ofthe FCPA,
Title 15, United States Code, Section 7Bad-2(h)(1), and was an agent of ain issuer, a U.S.-
based financial firm, within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section
78dd-1 (a).

11. “Investment Management Firm Employee 1,” an individual whose identity is
known to the United States and the Company, was an employee of the Investment

Management Firm until approximately mid-2008. Investment Management Firm Employee

A-3
1 was an employee of a domestic concern and an agent of an issuer within the meaning of the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(a) and 78dd-2(h)(1).

“LIBYAN GOVERNMENT ENTITIES AND OFFICIALS

12. The Central Bank of Libya (“CBL”) was a Libyan state-owned financial and
regulatory institution responsible for, among other things, managing the country’s official
monetary and foreign reserves and regulating its financial system. The CBL performed a
government function on behalf of Libya and was a client of Société Générale. The CBL was
an “agency” and “instrumentality” of a foreign government, as those terms are used in the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1), 78dd-2(h)(2), and 78dd-
3@(2)(A).

13. The Libyan Arab Foreign Bank (a/k/a Libyan Foreign Bank) (“LAFB”) was a
Libyan bank that was owned and controlled by the CBL. The LAFB performed a
government function on behalf of Libya and was a client of Société Générale. The LAFB
was an “agency” and “<nstrumentality” of a foreign government, as those terms are used in
. the ECPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f(1), 78dd-2(h)(2), and 78dd-

3()(2)(A).
14. The Economic and Social Development Fund (“ESDEF”) was a Libyan state-
owned financial institution that managed assets in Libya for the purpose of investing in major
- economic projects that supported the overall development of Libya and the distribution of its
wealth. The ESDF performed a state government function on behalf of Libya and was a

client of Société Générale. The ESDF was an “agency” and “instrumentality” of a foreign

A-4
goverhment, as those terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections
78dd-1(£)(1), 78dd-2(h)(2), and 78dd-3(0(2)(A):

15. The Libyan Investment Authority (the “LIA” and, together with the LAFB,
ESDF, and CBL, the “Libyan State Agencies”) was a Libyan government entity formed in
2006 to serve as a Libyan sovereign wealth fund, with a focus on investing and managing oul
revenues on behalf of the Libyan eovernment. The LIA was overseen by senior Libyan
government officials, was controlled by the Libyan government, and performed a
government function on behalf of Libya. The LIA was a client of Société Générale. The
LIA was an “agency” and “instrumentality” of a foreign government, as those terms are used
in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1), 78dd-2(h)(2), and 78d4-
3((2)(A).

16. “Libyan Official 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the United
States and the Company, was a close relative of then Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi.
Although Libyan Official 1 did not hold a formal title within the Libyan government, Libyan
Official 1 possessed and used a Libyan diplomatic passport and conducted high-profile
foreign and domestic affairs for and on behalf of the Libyan government. Libyan Official 1
made administrative and investment decisions for the LIA, including through proxies.
Libyan Official 1 was a “foreign official” within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1), 7&dd-2(h)(2), and 78dd-3(f)(2)(A). |

17. “Libyan Official 2,” an individual whose identity is Known to the United
States and the Company, was an official at several of the Libyan State Agencies, including

the LAFB, the ESDF, and the LIA. Libyan Official 2 was a “foreign official” within the
AS

 
oacaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code: Sections 78dd-1(H(1), 1Bdd-2(h)(2), and
TBdd3(N2\A). | |

18. “Libyan Official 3,” an individual whose identity is known to the United
- States and the Company, was a senior official at the LIA and was a “foreign official” within
the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1), 78dd-2(h)(2),
and 78dd-3(£)(2)(A). | |

19. “Libyan Official 4,” an individual whose identity is known to the United
States and the Company, Was a senior official at the LAFB and-was a “foreign official”
within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1), 78dd-
2(H)2), and 7846-3(2KA). oo
| OVERVIEW OF THE SCHEME

- 20. Between in or about 2005 and in or about 2011, following the lifting of broad

~ economic sanctions, the Libyan State Agencies sought to place substantial funds with
financial institutions for investment putposes. These placements were heavily sought after
by a number of financial institutions, including Socicté Générale, as well as at least eight
U.S.-based financial institutions. By at least 2006, several Société Générale employees,
‘together with their co-conspirators, knew that the Libyan Intermediary was paying bribes and
providing other improper financial benefits to Libyan government officials in order to secure |
financial investments for Société Générale, and agreed to continue to use the Libyan
Intermediary despite that knowledge. In providing bribes and other improper benefits on
Société Générale’s behalf, and taking other acts in furtherance thereof, the Libyan

Intermediary acted as an “agent” of Société Générale as that term is understood under U.S.

A-6

 
U.S. law. The Société Générale employees also concealed the bribes through payments to
‘the Libyan Intermediary for purported “mtroduction” Services. During this time period,
Société Générale, often in partnership with the Investment Management Firm, sold the

- Libyan State Agencies 13 structured notes (and one restructuring) worth a.total of
approximately $3.66 billion. Société Générale earned profits of approximately $523 million
in connection with these deals. For each transaction, Société Générale paid the Libyan
Intermediary’s Panamanian Company a commission of between one and a half and three ;
percent of the nominal amount of the investments made by the Libyan State Agencies. In
total, Société Générale paid the Libyan Intermediary approximately $90.74 million from
approximately 2005 to 2009 for supposed “introductory” services.

21. During the course of the scheme, several Société Générale employees,
including SG Employee 1, SG Employee 2, and SG Employee 3, discussed their belief and
understanding that, in order to secure deals for Société Générale, the Libyan Intermediary
was using some portion of the commissions from the bank to pay Libyan officials, including

Libyan Official 1, and was providing smaller payments and improper benefits, such as free
travel and entertainment, to Libyan Official 2, Libyan Official 3, and other Libyan officials.
22. Some employees of Société Générale and the Investment Management Firm
also used coded language in furtherance of the scheme, including discussing when the
Libyan Intermediary had “cooked” various Libyan officials, which was used to connote that
the Libyan Intermediary had established control over the official, whether through bribery or

other means.

 
23. Several Société Générale employees, including SG Employee 1 and SG
Employee 2, also undertook to hide the commission payments to the Libyan Intermediary’s
Panamanian Company from certain officials of the Libyan State Agencies who were either
unaware of or unconnected to the bribery scheme.

24. Some Société Générale employees knew that the Libyan Intermediary had
used threats and intimidation to cause the Libyan State Agencies to hire specific individuals,
including Libyan Official 2, whom the Libyan Intermediary instructed to ditect business to
Société Générale. These employees of Société Générale understood that the Libyan
Intermediary had these powers because he was “the right arm” and “the enforcer” of Libyan
Official 1, a close relative of then Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi.

25. Société Générale partnered with SGA, the Investment Management Firm, and
others to issue, market, and sell structured notes to the Libyan State Agencies. In these
transactions, Société Générale acted as the “structuring bank,” receiving the money invested
by the Libyan State Agencies in consideration for the Issuance of the structured notes. The
structured notes were issued by companies such as SGA and, for the maj ority of the trades,
were linked to the performance of funds that were either directly managed or sub-managed
_ by Lyxor. Société Générale agreed with the Investment Management Firm that, for certain
of the products, the money invested by the Libyan State Agencies would be placed in funds
managed by the Investment Management Firm. |

26. In2010, new Libyan eovernment officials assumed control at the LIA, which
diminished the influence of Libyan Official 2 and Libyan Official 3. The new management

at the LIA began to scrutinize the purpose of the payments to the Panamanian Company. In
A-8
response, Société Générale employees made a series of false statements to the new
management at the LIA. Certain Société Générale employees and the Libyan Intermediary
then attempted to set up a joint venture company, which would operate under a “Société
Générale” name but be majority owned and controlled by the Libyan Intermediary and would
principally be used to hide the Libyan Intermediary’s role and future commission payments
from the new LIA management.

27. Société Générale, together with its employees and agents, took a number of
acts in the United States in furtherance of the scheme. This included, but was not limited to,
Société Générale paying for SG Employee 2 to accompany Libyan Official 2 on at least two
_ trips to New York, where they discussed and planned the corrupt scheme There, SG
Employee 2, at the direction of the Libyan Intermediary and SG Employee 1, sought to
prevent competitors of Société Générale from soliciting business from Libyan Official 2. SG
Employee 2 also paid for Libyan Official 2 to enjoy multiple days of entertainment in the
United States, including paying for stays at expensive hotels, expensive meals, nightlife
excursions, and pifts of luxury goods. Société Générale further made a series of commission
payments to the Libyan Intermediary totaling approximately $91 million, each of which
cleared through Société Générale’s New York branch. Several Société Générale employees
understood that the Libyan Intermediary was using some portion of the commissions for
corrupt purposes. Additionally, Société Générale employees partnered with the Investment
Management Firm, a United States domestic concern, to carry out the corrupt scheme. The

Investment Management Firm’s asset management team in New York also actively managed

-A-9

 
at least one of the funds underlying one of the structured notes that the Libyan State

Agencies bought from Société Générale.

THE CONSPIRACY

A. The Investment Management Firm Introduces the Libyan Intermediary to
Société Générale

28.  Inor about May 2004, the Libyan Intermediary met with employees of the
Investment Management Firm to discuss how the Libyan Intermediary could provide the
Investment Management Firm access to investments in Libya. A New York-based employee
of SG Americas Securities LLC, a subsidiary of Société Générale, attended this meeting,
which occurred at the London office of the Investment Management Firm, During the initial
meeting, the Libyan Intermediary was accompanied by multiple close associates of Libyan
Official 1, including Libyan Official 3, who at the time was employed by a fishing company
owned by Libyan Official 1. The attendees further discussed the possibility that various
Libyan state institutions would purchase products from Socisté Générale, and the products
would be linked to funds. managed by both Lyxor and the Investment Management Firm.
| 29. Separately, in or about October 2004, a Switzerland-based asset manager
mtroduced employees of Société Genérale’s Switzerland desk to the Libyan Intermediary. —
Following this initial meeting, employees of Société Générale, including SG Employee | and
employees of Société Générale’s Switzerland desk, worked to develop an investment product
for the LAFB. As proposed in the investment, the LAF B or another Libyan state institution
would purchase notes issued by a Société Générale subsidiary linked to the performance of a

fund “sub-managed” by Lyxor. On or about October 5, 2004, Société Générale employees 7

A-10
agreed to pay the Libyan Intermediary an up-front fee of three percent of the nominal amount
of the products the Libyan State Agencies were planning to purchase from Société Générale.
That same day, the Société Générale employees further agreed that the Libyan
Intermediary’s role as introducing broker for the LAFB investment would not be disclosed in
the dea! documents.

30.  Atthe time, a senior employee within DEAI (the “DEAI Employee”) advised
the Société Générale employees responsible for onboarding the Libyan Intermediary that,
after consulting the then-applicable sales handbook, he had determined that, due to the
sensitivity of business in Libya and the significant size of the Libyan Intermediary’s
commissions, the fees paid by Société Générale to the Libyan Intermediary would need to be
| disclosed to the LAEB. The DEAI Employee noted, however, that tt was understood that
making such a disclosure to the LAFB about the Libyan Intermediary’s fees could be a “deal
breaker.” The DEAI Employee, following consultation with the DEAT Sales desk, therefore
proposed a second option that would allow Société Générale to disclose the overall amount
of fees that would be paid in connection with the deal, and to disclose the involvement of a
remunerated intermediary. Société Générale would then rely on the Libyan Intermediary to
| make his own disclosure to the LAFB. In response, a Société Générale employee sitting on |
the Switzerland desk confirmed that unless the second option was followed, there would be
no deal with the LAEFB.

3], Despite these carly warnings, over the next few years, Société Générale’s
equity and derivatives business employees who dealt with the Libyan Intermediary took

repeated steps to hide the fees and identity of the Libyan Intermediary from the Libyan State
A-I1

 
Agencies, including by failing to respond to inquiries from Libyan officials and minimizing
disclosures in term sheets by using small font and non-standard typefaces.

32. On or about November 5, 2004, the Investment Management Firm (via a
subsidiary company) and the Libyan Intermediary entered into a “Master Exclusivity
Agreement.” The agreement provided that the Investment Management Firm would pay the

_ Libyan Intermediary to “arrang[e}” for Libyan state agencies and institutional investors, such
as the Central Bank of Libya, to purchase certain notes issued by Société Générale, and for
which the returns on the investments were tied to the performance of funds managed by the
Investment Management Firm. The agreement further provided that the Investment .
Management Firm would pay the Libyan Intermediary between one and a half and four
percent of the value of each note sold to the Libyan investors and that the Investment
Management Firm would work exclusively with the Libyan Intermediary. Ultimately, the
Investment Management Firm never paid the Libyan Intermediary under this agreement
because the Investment Management Firm and Société Générale jointly decided that Société
Générale should make commission payments to the Libyan Intermediary.

33.  Onor about February 23, 2005, Société Générale entered into an agreement
with the Libyan Intermediary through the Panamanian Company. The agreement required
the Libyan Intermediary to use his best efforts to introduce the bank to new clients in Libya.
In return, Société Générale agreed to pay the Libyan Intermediary a three percent
commission on the nominal amount of all financial products that Société Générale sold to the
Libyan clients. Over the next four years, Société Générale and the Libyan Intermediary

entered into substantially similar agreements in connection with the transactions discussed
A-12
below, including, in certain instances, years after Société Générale had already been
introduced to the relevant Libyan State Agencies and its management personnel. |

34. On or about March 10, 2005, Société Générale also entered into-an exclusivity
agreement with the Libyan Intermediary through the Panamanian Company. In the
agreement, Socitte Générale agreed not to market or propose structured products directly to |
| certain Libyan state institutions, including the LAFB. The agreement did not, however,
require the Libyan Intermediary to work exclusively with Société Générale. Societe
Générale and the Libyan Intermediary extended this agreement on or about June 5, 2005 and
on or about March 3, 2006.

35. Société Générale employees of the Switzerland desk continued negotiating the _
investment of Libyan state funds until in or about June 2005, when the proposal was dropped

in favor of another pending deal with the LAFB pursued by SG Employees 1 and 2.

B. LAFB Transactions Between 2005 and 2007

36. In or about June 2005, SG Employee 1, SG Employee 2, and Investment
Management Firm Employee | began coordinating on structuring a note to sell to the LAFB.
It was understood that there could be no deal with the LAFB unless Société Générale paida
fee to the Libyan Intermediary. |

37. _ Onor about November 4, 2005, SG Employee 2 emailed Libyan Intermediary,
and. copied SG Employee 1, with bank account ‘details for an account that SG Employee 1]
and SG Employee 2 had caused to be opened for the Panamanian Company at Societe

| Générale’s branch in Switzerland (“SG Zurich”). SG Employee 2 wrote, in part: “As

A-13

 
promised you'll find here after the bank account details in Zurich. Allis clean and ready. I
siticked [sic] to my promise > So make them take action in the two following weeks.”

38.  Onor about December 20, 2005, the LAFB agreed to invest in two $50 million
notes issued by SGA linked to the performance of certain Lyxor funds. .

39. Several weeks later, on or about J anuaty 13, 2006, Société Générale paid $3
noillion to the Panamanian Company’s bank account at SG Zurich as an “introducing broker”
fee for the first two LAFB transactions. The funds were cleared through Société Générale’s
New York branch. |

40. Throughout the conspiracy, SG Employee 2 understood from the Libyan
Entermediary and SG Employee | that one of his duties was to ensure that Libyan Official 2
did not associate with competitors of Société Générale, in order to maximize the amount of
business that Libyan Official 2 helped direct to Société Générale and the Libyan |
Intermediary. SG Employee 2 communicated this instruction to others, including Investment
Management Firm Employee 1. For example, on or about April 4, 2006, Investment
Management Firm Employee 1 contacted SG Employee 2 concerning an upcoming
conference in New York that Libyan Official 2 would be attending. SG Employee 2
responded to Investment Management Firm Employee 1 that it was important to prevent
Libyan Official 2 from meeting with other investment firms because Société Générale and
the Investment Management Firm were working on obtaining additional investments from
the Libyan State Agencies. |

Al.  Onor about April 21, 2006, Libyan Official 2 flew to John I. Kennedy

International Airport in Queens, New York, to attend a meeting at the New York office of the
| A-14 | )

 
. Investment Management Firm. The Investment Management Firm arranged for a four-night
stay for Libyan Official 2 at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York.

42.  Onor about June 8, 2006, the LAFB authorized an investment in a $100
million note issued by SGA linked to the performance of Lyxor’s “Serenity Fund.” SG
Employee 2 provided Libyan Official 2 with instructions to transfer $100 million to Société
Générale on June 16, 2006. The transfer cleared through Société Générale’s New York
branch. .

43. On or about June 20, 2006, Société Générale paid $3 million to the
Panamanian Comp any’s bank account at SG Zurich as an “imtroducing broker” fee for the
Serenity Fund transaction with the LAFB. The payment cleared through Société Générale’s
New York branch. .

44, The Libyan Intermediary used the term “cooking” to describe his ability to
cause Libyan government officials to invest with Société Générale and the Investment
Management Firm by any means necessary, including bribes, threats, and intimidation. On
or about June 26, 2006, the Libyan Intermediary told SG Employee 2 that Libyan Official 4
was already “cooked,” aad that SG Employee 2 should make an investment proposal to
Libyan Official 4 because he would agree to it. At the time, Libyan Official 4 was the head
of a unit with responsibility for recommending certain types of investments with financial
institutions. One week later, on or about July 3, 2006, the Libyan Intermediary transferred
$100,000 to Libyan Official 4. |

45. In or about July 2006, employees at SG Zurich informed SG Employee 2 and

others in Paris that the Libyan Intermediary was immediately transferring the funds the
A-15 :
Panamanian Company received in the SG Zurich account to a bank account the Libyan
Intermediary held at another Swiss bank. Certain Société Générale employees repeatedly
: ignored warnings from SG Zurich compliance relating to the use of the SG Zurich account as
a transit account. |
46. On or about August 29, 2006, SG Employee 2 had a telephone call with
Investment Management Firm Employee | to discuss the LAFB investment proposals
Société Générale and the Investment Management Firm had developed. SG Employee 2
assured Investment Management Firm Employee 1 that Libyan Official 4 would not ask any
questions about the proposal because of something SG Employee 2. could not discuss on the
phone.
47. On or about September 5, 2006, the Libyan Intermediary transferred.
approximately $75,000 to a relative of Libyan Official 2. That same day, the Libyan
Intermediary placed a telephone call, which was recorded, to SG Employee 2, during which
he stated about Libyan Official 2: “I cooked him . : Only we have to go there, start the fire,
have a barbecue.” During another telephone call the same day with Investment Management
' Firm Employee 1, SG Employee 2 stated: “[Libyan Official 2] is coming, for your
information, at my place this weekend... I’m going to cook the guy, cook him very hot to
make sure everything is clean. . . let’s make sure by working on [Libyan Official 2], by
working on him that we get back on these transactions, done at least 100 on each fund. . .
[Libyan Intermediary] is saying the proposals you’re going to do for the Libya-Africa, he’ ll

do the same one for the Economic Social Development Fund.”

A-16
48. Approximately one week later, Investment Management Firm Employee ! sent
Libyan Official 2 a proposal for the LAFB to purchase a note issued by Société Générale,
linked to a fund managed by the Investment Management Firm. On or about September 19,
2006, SG Employee 2 told the head of the Investment Management Firm that SG Employee
2 had “cooked” Libyan Official 2 and that SG Employee 2 was confident that the Investment
Management Firm would be included in the upcoming deals.

49, Onor about September 20, 2006, SG Employee 2, informed Investment
Management Firm Employee 1 that because of a recent regulatory change he was being»
required to include the disclosure of the remuneration to the Panamanian Company in the
term sheets for the LAFB. SG Employee 2 and Investment Management Firm Employee 1
then discussed ways to hide the disclosure of the payment to the Libyan Intermediary from.
the LAFB, including by falsely replacing Libyan Intermediary with the Investment
Management Firm and having the Investment Management Firm then pass the payment onto
the Libyan Intermediary. SG Employee 2 informed Investment Management Firm Employee
l that Société Générale puts the disclosure of the Panamanian Company on the “last page
disclaimer with a lot of information” and that this way is “clean for everybody. It’s even
clean for [the Investment Management Firm] if this goes like this.’ [t is clean, anyway.”

50. On or about March 27, 2007, the LAFB and the ESDF jointly invested in three
structured notes totaling $500 million issued by SGA: a) a $200 million note called the
“Fieo-Soc Serenity Fund linked Notes 2012” linked to the performance of certain Lyxor
managed funds; (2) a $150 million five-year note (externally issued by another European

bank) linked to the performance of certain funds managed by the Investment Management
A-17

 
Firm; and (3) a $150 million note linked to the performance of a group of five managers,
including the Investment Management Firm. On or about April 11, 2007, Société Générale
paid, in connection with the March 2007 transactions, a total of $15 million to the Libyan
Intermediary via the Panamanian Company’s account at SG Zurich. These payments were
cleared through Société Générale’s New York branch.

C. CBL Transactions in Mid-2007

51. Beginning in or about May 2007, the SG CIB equity derivatives business and
Société Générale Asset Management division (“SGAM”) each separately began soliciting
business from the CBL for their respective divisions of Société Générale. In or about May
2008, SG Employee 2 and others traveled to meet with officials at the CBL in Libya. After |
the meeting, a senior CBL official privately solicited SG Employee 2 for a bribe in exchange |
for a CBL investment. SG Employee 2 discussed the bribe solicitation with SG Employee 1
and SG Employes 3, as well as the Libyan Intermediary. |

52. Because SGAM did not use the Libyan Intermediary before approaching the
CBL, employees of Société Générale’s equity derivatives business expr essed concern
internally that SGAM?’s actions could be seen by the Libyan Intermediary as a violation of
his exclusivity agreement, which they believed could jeopardize all of Societé Générale’s |
| business in Libya because the Libyan Intermediary was the “right arm of [Libyan Official
| 14.” Beginning on or about June 8, 2007, SG Employee 1 and SG Employee 2 discussed
with the Libyan Intermediary ways to prevent SGAM from further marketing to the CBL.

SG Employee 1 asked the Libyan Intermediary if he could prevent SGAM employees from

A-18

 
obtaining visas and entering Libya. The Libyan Intermediary represented that he had the
power to block people from entering Libya. .

53. SG Employee 1 also began escalating the issue within SG CIB, in an effort to
prevent SGAM from conducting fature business with CBL. On or about June 8, 2007, .
during a recorded telephone call, SG Employee 1 told another Société Générale employee
. who was preparing to discuss the issue with others in the bank, that the Libyan
Intermediary’s “contacts today are at government level, at a very, very high level. The
highest level, you have to tell him that it’s at the highest level in Libya, there are people a
very, very high level, at the top level in Libya, who could cause us a lot of problems.” The
Société Générale employee then asked 1f this was because “they [government-level contacts]
don’t get their [commissions],” to ‘which SG Employee 1 stated, “That’s not our problem;
you mustn’t tell him!

54. Oror about June 21, 2007, Société Generale sold the first of three notes to the
CBL: a $150 million, three-year structured note issued by SGA, linked to funds managed by
both the Investment Management Firm and Société Générale. Certain Société Générale
employees prepared and transmitted the term sheet and deal documents for CBL,
incorporating the Investment Management Firm’s logo and inforrnation in the materials.

55.  Onor about July 25, 2007, SG Employee 2 reported to colleagues at SG CIB
that the bank had just closed a second deal with the CBL. In this transaction, the CBL |
purchased a $100 million, five-year structured note issued by SGA, linked to funds managed

by the Investment Management Firm.

A-19

 
56. Onor about August 8, 2007, SG Employee 2 created an invoice (directed to
SG Employee 2’s attention) purporting to be issued by the Panamanian Company in
connection with receiving a fee for the July 2007 transaction. SG Employee 2 provided a
copy of the invoice, in person, to the Libyan Intermediary with instructions to send it to
Société Générale to be paid. |

57. . Onor about September 12, 2007, Société Générale sold the last of three notes
to the CBL: a $200 million, three-year structured note issued by SGA, linked to funds
managed by Lyxor. The next day, the Libyan Intermediary and Société Générale entered
into an agreement to pay the Libyan Intermediary the three percent commission over the
following. 18 months to the Panamanian Company’s account at SG Zatich. |

58. Between ov. or about August 10, 2007 and March 19, 2009, Société Générale
paid a total of approximately $11.25 million to the Libyan Intermediary via the Panamanian
Company’s account at SG Zurich in connection with the three CBL transactions. The
payments were cleared through Société Générale’s New York branch.

D. LIA Transactions from 2007 to 2009

59. Between in or about November 2007 and June 2009, the LIA entered into four
transactions with Société Générale, including one in conjunction with the Investment
Management Firm. In total, the LIA invested approximately $2.1 billion with Société
‘Générale. In connection with these transactions, the Libyan Intermediary received a total of —
approximately $58.5 million in commissions. During this time period, the Libyan

Intermediary transferred at least $20 million of the commissions paid by Société Générale to

A-20

 
a relative of Libyan Official 3, who was at the time a senior official at the LIA and a known
associate and close friend of Libyan Official 1.

60. Inor about early 2007, the Libyan Intermediary informed SG Employee 2 and
others at Société Générale about the creation of the LIA, explaining that it would be staffed
by, among others, Libyan Official 2 and Libyan Official 3. In or about mid-2007, while

‘pursuing the CBL transactions, SG Employee 2 began to help Libyan Official 2 select
employees for the LIA who would be favorable to the business interests of Société Générale
and the Investment Management Firm.

1. The Investment Management Firm’s Approach to the LIA and
November 2007 Investment

61. By in or about September 2007, the Investment Management Firm had begun
pursuing a direct investment by the LIA into a fund managed by the Investment Management
Firm, instead of through a Société Générale structured note. Ultimately, however, the LIA
purchased a structured note issued by SGA, linked to funds managed by the Investment
Management Firm. |

62. Onor about November 28, 2007, the LIA purchased from Société Générale
-$300 million worth of notes issued by SGA, linked to a fund managed by the Investment
Management Firm. At the time, the Chief Operating Officer of GEDS was a director of
SGA. According to the term sheet, which was prepared by Société Générale employees but
had the Investment Management Firm’s logo on the cover, the Investment Management Firm
would be the investment adviser of the reference fund to which the performance of the note

was linked. Although the Investment Management Firm had originally pitched the deal to

A-21

 
the LIA without the assistance of the Libyan Intermediary, and the Libyan Intermediary had
played no role in negotiating ot structuring the deal, the term sheet stated that the
Panamanian Company had collaborated with Société Générale in providing the investment
solution and was remunerated for its services. -

63. On or about January 21, 2008, SG Employee 2 prepared a $9 million invoice
for the Libyan Intermediary to send to Societe Générale. On or about February 2, 2008,
Société Générale paid $9 million to the Panamanian Company’s account at SG Zurich in
connection with the November 2007 transaction. This payment was cleared through Société
Générale’s New York branch. |

ii. The $1 Billion Optimizer Transaction

64. On or about February 12, 2008, a group of Société Générale employees,

including SG Employees 1, 2, and 3, traveled to Libya aboard a chartered plane to meet with

the LIA. The Libyan Intermediary was not present at this meeting, despite his role as Société

Générale’s introducing broker. At the meeting, Libyan Official 3 explained that the LIA
intended to invest at least $5 billion in a structured product with Société Générale, but that
the LIA wished to avoid engaging in a U.S. dollar denominated transaction out of a fear that
the funds could be frozen by U.S. coutts. Libyan Official 3 requested that Société Générale
come up with a solution to prevent this from happening.

65. Following this meeting, Société Générale employees designed a product called
“Optimizer” to accommodate the LIA’s request to make an investment that was tied to the
value of Société Générale shares. As designed, the LIA would invest $1 billion, which

would be converted to Euros, and invested in a note the performance of which was tied to

A-22,

 
Euro-denominated shares of Société Générale. In or about late February 2008, employees at
S ocieté Générale discussed that the Libyan Intermediary’s customary three percent
commission on the $1 billion Optimizer transaction would be $30 million, which was viewed
as too high. Consequently, SG Employee 3 instructed SG Employee 2 that the Libyan
Intermediary’s commission could be no higher than two percent of the $1 billion transaction,
or $20 million. When he learned that Société Générale planned to reduce his commission to
two percent, the Libyan Intermediary offered SG Employee 2 a kickback of a portion of the

. fee in exchange for convincing Société Générale to pay the normal three percent
commission. Ultimately, however, the Libyan Intermediary agreed to the two percent

_ commission rate.

66. Onor about March 10, 2008, SG Employee 1 gave instructions to SG
Employee 2 and reminded him to inform a senior LIA official “on the importance of
confidentiality in our discussions, for their best interest and ours.” SG Rmployee 2 then
reported back that a senior LIA official requested a change in the disclosure of the Libyan
Intermediary’s fees. SG Employee 2 then emphasized that the disclosure of the Panamanian
Company “must be at the end [of the document] and use smaller typ[e]... like all previous
lib Yan [sic] proposal.”

67.  Onor about March 17, 2008, the LIA agreed to the terms of the Optimizer
investment. The LIA paid $1 billion for a structured product offered by Société Générale.
The Libyan Intermediary played no role in advising on or structuring the Optimizer |
transaction. Three days later, certain Société Générale employees circulated a proposed

agreement to the Libyan Intermediary to pay a two percent fee (a total of $20 million) in
| : A-23 |

 
connection with the Optimizer transaction, with one and a half percent payable within five
days and the remainder payable on September 17, 2009.

68. On or about April 27, 2008, SG Employee 2 learned from the Libyan
Intermediary that the LIA would be requiring financial firms doing business with the LIA to
disclose whether the firms were using intermediaries or third parties in connection with
soliciting investments. The Libyan Intermediary informed SG Employee 2 that this
obligation would require any financial firm presently using an intermediary to disclose the
identity of that intermediary. Upon receiving a letter from the LIA to this effect, SG |
Employee 1, SG Employee 2, and other employees at Societe Générale worked with the
~ Libyan Intermediary, Libyan Official 2, and Libyan Official 3 to prevent the disclosure of the
Libyan Intermediary and the fee arrangement. Certain Société Générale employees and the
Libyan Intermediary agreed on a temporary solution to prevent disclosure of the Libyan
Intermediary’s name and the “introducing broker” fees he earned from the Optimizer
- transaction (which had not yet been paid). They agreed that the Libyan Intermediary would
seek to have the LIA rewrite its letter so that it only applied to future transactions with the
LIA, and that Sociéte Générale would pay the Libyan Intermediary all outstanding fees so
there would be no future arrangements to disclose. SG Employee 2 later notified SG |
Employee 1, SG Employee 3, and other senior Société Générale employees that the LIA
would adopt the change. On or about April 28, 2008, Libyan Official 2 sent an email to SG
| Employee 2 and explained that the requirement to disclose intermediaries was forward

looking only.

A-24

 
4

69... On or about April 28, 2008, SG Employee 2 had a phone call with the Libyan
Intermediary and complained that SG Employee 2 had asked for a new letter, not an email.
Later that day, Libyan Official 2 called SG Employee 2 and said that a letter was
forthcoming. Shortly thereafter, Libyan Official 2 emailed SG Employee 2 a new letter,
signed by Libyan Official 3— but not by the head of the LIA, as the original letter had
been—making clear that the disclosure of intermediaries applied only to future deals. SG
Employee 2 forwarded this letter to SG Employee 1, SG Employee 3, and other Société
Générale employees. | |

70. That same day, on or about April 28, 2008, Société Générale advanced the
“introducing broker” fee due to the Libyan Intermediary for the Optimizer transaction, so
that there would be no outstanding fees due to the Libyan Intermediary, thereby avoiding the
need to disclose a “future” third-party arrangement. Senior GEDS employees approved the
advancement of the $20 million payment to the Libyan Intermediary, which was discounted
~ to present value of $19.788 million. |

71. Onor about April 28, 2008, SG Employee.2 forwarded the Libyan
Intermediary a signed agency agreement, amending the amount due on the Optimizer |
transaction to 1.9788 percent. The same day, Société Générale paid $19.788 million to the
~ Panamanian Company’s account at SG Zurich. This payment was cleared through Société

Générale’s New York branch. .

72. Also on or about April 28, 2008, SG Employee 2 and an employee of the _

Investment Management Firm spoke by phone. During that recorded phone call, SG

Employee 2 described the LIA letter requiring the disclosure of agents as a “Libyan bomb.”
| | A-25 |

 
_SG Employee 2 stated that Société Générale had to respond in a way where they answered
the questions but without doing any harm.

73. Onorabout April 29, 2008, Société Générale sent a letter, signed by a senior
GEDS employee, to the head of the LIA and Libyan Official 3 falsely representing that
Société Générale had no agreements engaging Société Générale in the future with a third | |
party to facilitate an introduction to the LIA. In fact, at the time, Société Générale was
working with the Libyan Intermediary on another transaction involving the LIA for which
the Libyan Intermediary would be paid an “introducing broker” fee. Société Générale also
did not update the LIA on future engagements with the Libyan Intermediary, notwithstanding
having received the LIA fee disclosure letter. |

74. Onor about May 9, 2008, the Libyan Intermediary transferred $7.5 million
from the $19.78 million received from Société Générale to a relative of Libyan. Official 3,
who was a senior official at the LIA. |

tie The Crossroads Transaction

75. At the same time that Société Générale was falsely representing to the LIA
that it was not engaging a third-party intermediary, SG Employees 1 and 2 were preparing to
present a proposed transaction called “Crossroads” to the LIA for approval (via the Libyan
Intermediary). Tn connection with the proposed transaction, the LIA would invest $300 —
million in notes issued by SGA linked to a fund called Crossroads. SG Employee 2 worked
with Investment Management Firm Employee 1 and others to arrange a trip for Libyan
Official 2 to the United States. Between on or about May 4, 2008 and May 9, 2008,

Investment Management Firm Employee I and Libyan Official 2 traveled together to Boston,
| A-26

 
. Massachusetts, where the Investment Management Firm provided Libyan Official 2 with a
course in negotiations at a university, as well as luxury hotel accommodations and
entertainment. Libyan Official 2 and Investment Management Firm Employee 1 then
traveled from Boston to New York. |

76. Between on or about May 9, 2008 and May 12, 2008, SG Employee 2 and the
Libyan Intermediary traveled to New York through John F. Kennedy International Airport in
order to meet Libyan Official 2, pitch him on the Crossroads transaction, and provide him
with entertainment in New York. While in New York, SG Employee 2 also discussed with
Libyan Official 2 the prospect of Société Générale securing-approximately $4 billion worth
of additional investments from the LIA. SG Employee 2 also provided Libyan Official 2 and
the Libyan Intermediary with multiple days of entertainment in New York, including stays at
a luxury hotel and extravagant meals and nightlife entertainment, as well as gifts of luxury
goods.

77. Qnor about May 17, 2008, while SG Employee 2 and the Libyan Intermediary
were in transit returning from the United States, Libyan Official 2 contacted SG Employees 1
and 2 requesting that, once back from New York, they provide Libyan Official 2 with an |
updated Crossroads term sheet so he could present it to the head of the LIA for signature.
The next day, on or about May 18, 2008, SG Employee 2 returned from the United States,
and informed SG Employee L, SG Employee 3, and others that the plan they made in New
York was working, and that he expected the $300 million Crossroads deal to close that week.

78. Onor about May 19, 2008, SG Employee 2 sent Libyan Official 2 the

proposed terms of the Crossroads transaction. As designed, the LIA would invest $300
| A-27
million in notes issued by SGA linked to the Crossroads fund. Three days later, the LIA.
approved the investment of. $300 million in Société Générale notes. /

79. On or about May 27, 2008, Société Générale prepared forms to pay the Libyan
Intermediary a three percent commission, or $9 million, through the Panamanian Company
for the Crossroads transaction. The next day, SG Employee 3 and another Societé Générale
employee discussed the payments to the Libyan Intermediary, and SG Employee 3 was asked
whether Libyan Official 1 knew about the payments to the Libyan Intermediary. SG
Employee 3 responded that he knew about the payments and suspected that Libyan Official 1 |
- would also get a kickback. | |

-80. . Onor about June’5, 2008, Société Générale paid $9 million to the Panamanian
Company’s bank account at SG Zurich as a fee for the Crossroads transaction. This payment
was cleared through Societe Générale’s New York branch.

81. Following these payments, SG Zurich compliance raised concerns about the
Panamanian Company account and obj ected to the Libyan Intermediary’s request
immediately to transfer $9 million to his account at a Swiss financial institution. On or about
June 10, 2008, SG Zurich contacted the GEDS employees, and noted that they had always
viewed the Panamanian Company account as problematic and wanted it closed. They further
complained that they had never been provided with sufficient documentation to satisfy their
concerns, and that there was tremendous pressure to “close our eyes” because of Société
Générale’s commercial interests. .Nevertheless, the GEDS employees continued to permit

the use of the Panamanian Company’s SG Zurich account in order to pay the Libyan

Tntermediary.
A-28

 
iv. Additional Transactions with the LIA

82. After the Crossroads transaction, Société Générale continued to pitch the LIA
on transactions and, with the help of the Libyan Intermediary, succeeded im securing:
additional placements. For example, on or about October 13, 2008, the LIA purchased
another $500 million structured product, referred to as the “SEAF” transaction, from Société
Générale. On or about November 27, 2008, Société Générale paid approximately $12.5
million to the Panamanian Company’s bank account at SG Zurich as an “introducing broker”
fee for the SEAF transaction. That payment cleared through Société Générale’s New York
branch. That same day, the Libyan Intermediary transferred approximately $2.7 million to a
relative of Libyan Official 3, who vas a senior official at the LIA.

| 83. | In or about January 2009, Société Générale began negotiating a restructuring
of the $1 billion Optimizer transaction with the LIA. (“Optimizer IT”), which had lost
significant value over time. While discussing the restructuring, a Société Générale employee:
questioned whether the Libyan Intermediary should receive an “introducing broker” fee
given that Optimizer I was a restructuring, and not a new deal. SG Employee 2 informed
‘his superiors that there would be no deal unless the Libyan Intermediary received his fee. _

84. On or about February 10, 2009, the Libyan Intermediary transferred
approximately $2.4 million to a relative of Libyan Official 3, who was a senior official at the
LIA. |

85. On ot about July 9, 2009, Société Générale executed the Optimizer I deal by

selling a $410 million restructured “Optimizer” note to the LIA.

A-29

 
86, On or about July 20, 2009, Société Générale transferred approximately $8.2
anillion to the Panamanian Company’s bank account at SG Zurich as the Libyan
Intermediary’s “introducing broker” fee for Optimizer II, despite the fact that the LIA had
‘been Société. Générale’s client for almost two years. This payment was cleared through
Société Générale’s New York. branch,

E. Post-LIA Transactions

87. On or about June 30, 2009, while finalizing the restructuring of the Optimizer
transaction, SG Employee 2 and another Société Générale employee arranged for the
purchase of airline tickets and hotel accommodations for relatives of Libyan Official 2, then
an official at the LIA, to Tenerife, Canary Islands.

88. By in or about November 2009, in connection with the Libyan Intermediary’s .
tole advising on an. acquisition of shares, compliance personnel at Société Générale informed
senior managers of SG CIB that the commissions paid to the Libyan Intermediary, both in
their absolute amounts and as a percentage of the déals, appeared to be unjustifiable in
relation to the service rendered. Moreover, the compliance personnel raised concerns that
the Libyan Intermediary was being paid through the Panamanian Company, incorporated in a _
country that is on the blacklist of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development.

89. MARK continued to seek to engage the Libyan Intermediary in a variety of
capacities, including as a joint venture partner and through a new offshore company .
established in the United Arab Emirates. On or about December 18, 2009, a Société

Générale employee drafted a memorandum outlining how SG CIB could engage the Libyan
A-30
Intermediary as a joint venture partner. The draft memorandum was circulated within
MARK. The draft memorandum proposed that the Libyan Intermediary would be the Chief
Executive Officer of the joint venture and that the new company would split advisory fees
for any mandate co-signed with SG CIB.

90. By in or about April 2010, Société Générale had agreed to establish a joint
venture with the Libyan Intermediary that would be registered in Luxembourg, and would: —
use a Société Génétale-branded name. Despite bearing Société Générale’s name, the joint —
venture would actually be 80 percent owned by the Libyan Intermediary and’20 percent
owned by Société Générale, with the Libyan Intermediary to receive 96 percent of the a
profits.

91. In or about mid-2010, new managemenit at the LIA made inquiries of Société :
Générale concerning the role of the Panamanian Company and the identity of its owner. On
or about July A, 2010, a legal representative from the LIA wrote to SG Employee 2 asking
for more information about the Panamanian Company in relation to certain prior deals. In
response, SG Employees 1 and 2 provided false and mmisleaditig information to the LIA —
management and withheld the identity of the Libyan Intermediary. SG Employee 2 falsely
| confirmed to LIA officials that the Panamanian Company complied with all of Société
Générale’s then-current Know Your Customer and other internal requirements, and then
stated that the remuneration paid to the Panamanian Company did not affect the profitability
_ of the LIA’s investments, when in fact it is likely to have increased the commercial margin |

taken by Société Générale on the products sold to the LIA.

A-31

 
| 92. During this time, SG Employee 2 provided updates to certain SG CIB
employees of efforts by Société Générale and the Libyan Intermediary to have the new
management at the LIA removed from their positions in order to allow additional
investments. On or about September 1, 2010, SG Employee 2 wrote to other Société
Générale employees requesting patience, until the current Chief Executive Officer of the LIA
was removed, which would allow Société Générale to obtain investments from the LIA
again.

93.  Asaresult of the increased scrutiny from new management at the LIA, Société
Générale employees prepared draft paperwork for submission to regulators in Luxembourg
a to finalize the joint venture company with the Libyan Intermediary. Société Générale

employees prepared documents internally that represented that the joint venture company

| would provide investment advisory services, including receiving and transmitting buy/sell
orders, underwriting financial instruments and providing investment advice. A draft

| presentation falsely credited the Libyan Intermediary with proposing investments solutions
tailored to specific clients, and omitted any mention of Libya or that the Libyan Intermediary
had no expertise or background m financial services and played no role in structuring

- transactions for any of the Libyan State Agencies. Ultimately this draft paperwork was not
submitted to the regulators in Luxembourg.

94, Following the start of the Libyan Revolution, Société Generale learned that the
European Union had placed sanctions on certain Libyan financial institutions, including the
LIA. Moreover, the French Treasury received information from Societe Générale on the.

Libyan Intermediary. In or about September 2011, Société Générale learned that a
A-32

 
_ newspaper was preparing to report on the Panamanian Company’s relationship with Société
Générale. Employees of Société Générale coordinated with an attorney for the Libyan
Intermediary concerning how to respond to newspaper inquiries.

On or about September 2, 2011, the attorney for the Libyan Intermediary represented that
they would not mention Société Générale in any response.

95.  Onor about November 8, 2012, the Libyan Intermediary and an attorney
representing him provided SG Employee 2 with answers that they could use in responding to
inquiries concerning Société Générale’s engagement of the Panamanian Company, including |
repeating the false representation that the Panamanian Company met Société Générale’s

stringent due diligence requirements in effect in 2012.

- A-33

 
