Case 4:20-cv-03317 Document1 Filed on 09/24/20 in TXSD Page 1 of 16

United States Courts
Southern District of Texas

FILED
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT Sept ember 24, 2020

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXA
HOUSTON DIVISION David J. Bradley, Clerk of Court

 

 

, 20-3317
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING )
COMMISSION, ) Case No. _
)
Plaintiff, ) COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE
) AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF
V. ) AND FOR CIVIL MONETARY
) PENALTIES UNDER THE
LAINO GROUP LIMITED D/B/A ) COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT
PAXFOREX )
) JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
Defendant. )
)
I, SUMMARY
1. Defendant Laino Group Limited d/b/a PaxForex (““PaxForex’’) operates a website

and trading platform, www.paxforex.com, which allows customers to trade commodities ranging
from foreign currencies and precious metals to certain digital assets including ether, litecoin, and
bitcoin. The problem with Defendant’s business is that it is illegally soliciting or accepting
orders for leveraged, margined or financed retail off-exchange foreign currency (“forex”),
precious metals, and digital asset transactions from U.S. customers without being registered with
Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission’’), as required.

2. From at least March 2018 through the present (the “Relevant Period’), Defendant,
through the actions of its officers, employees, and/or agents, has conducted a business in the
United States in a manner that violates Section 4(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”),

7 U.S.C. § 6(a) (2018): by soliciting or accepting orders from non-eligible contract participants
(“non-ECPs’’), not conducted on or subject to the rules of any Commission-regulated exchange,

for the purchase or sale of gold, silver (together, “precious metals’’), ether, litecoin, and bitcoin
 

(collectively, “digital assets”) on a leveraged, margined or financed basis that does not result in
actual delivery of the commodities to the customer (retail commodity transactions”).

3. Further, without registering with the Commission as a futures commission
merchant (RCM”), Defendant, in or in connection with forex and retail commodity transactions,
accepis money, securities, or property (or extends credit in leu thereof) in the form of bitcom or
other assets, to margin, guarantee, or secure trades or contracts that result or may result
therefrom, in violation of Section 4d(a)(1) of the Act, 7 LLS.C. 8 6d(ajcd) (2018).

4. Pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. $ 13a-L 018), the Commission
brings this action to enjoin Defendant’s unlawful acts and practices, to compel comphance with
the Act, and to further enjorn Defendant from engaging in any commodity-related activity.

5. In addition, the Commission seeks civil monetary penalties and remedial ancillary
relief, including but not limited to, trading and registration bans, disgorgement, restitution,
rescission, pre-judgment and post-judgment mierest, and such other relief as the Court may deem
necessary and appropriate.

6. Uniess restrained and enjoined by this Court, Defendant is likely to continue to
engage in the acts and practices alleged m this Complaint, or similar acts and practices, as more
fully described below.

Hi. JURESDEICTION AND VENUE

7. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under 28 U.S.C. § [331 QOS)
(federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. $ 1345 (2018), which provides that district courts
have original purisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by any agency
expressly authorized to sue by Act of Congress. In addition, Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

$ [3a-l (2018), provides that district courts have jurisdiction to hear actions brought by the
 

Commission for mjunctive rehef and to enforce compliance with the Act whenever i shall
appear to the Commission that any person has engaged, 1s engaging, or is about to engage in any
act or practice constituting a violation of any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or
order thereunder.

8. The Commission has jurisdiction over the conduct and transactions at issue in this
case pursuant to Sections Z2(c)(2)(C) and 2(c2)(D) of the Act, 7 ULS.C. 88 2c) 22),
2(cK 2D) (2018).

9, Venue properly Hes with this Court pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § [3a-I(a) because
Defendant transacts business in this District and certain transactions, acts, practices, and courses
of business alleged in this Complaint occurred, are occurring, and/or are about to occur within
this District.

Tr. =©60>PARTIES

A. Plaintut

10. Conmmodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent federal regulatory
agency charged by Congress with the administration and enforcement of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 38 I-
26 (2018), and the Commission’s Regulations (“Regulations”) promulgated thereunder,

17 CER. pts. 1-190 2019).

i. Defendant

i. Defendant Laino Group Linuted d/b/a PaxForex is registered as an international
business company in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and claims on its website that its
information technology infrastructure has been deployed to data centers in New York and
London. PaxForex operates an online trading platform accessed through www.paxforex.com,
which offers customers forex and retail commodity transactions, among other products.
PaxForex has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

%
7
 

-£ OOH ¢ aye As
A RULE bike: Tks 4 3 Ca ae AG
Ty. STATUTORY BACKGROUND
A. Forex Transactions

12. Section 2(cK2 CGD of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §& 20@)2 CWO) (2018), in relevant
part, apphes to any agreement, contract, or transaction, in foreign currency that is offered to, or
entered into with, a person that is not an ECP “on a leveraged or margined basis, or financed by
the offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting mn concert with the offeror or counterparty on a
similar basis” (“forex transactions’), subject to certain exceptions not applicable here.

13. The Act defines an ECP, in relevant part, as an individual: (a) who has amounts
invested on a discretionary basis, the aggregate of which exceeds $10 million, or (b) $5 million if
the mdividual enters into the transaction to “manage the risk associated with an asset owned or
liability incurred, or reasonably likely to be owned or incurred, by the individual.” Section
la(L8yAjox) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § faCi 8A) KE) 018).

14. For corporate entities, the Act defines an ECP, in relevant part, as a corporation
that has total assets exceeding S10 million and “the obligations of which under an agreement,
contract, or transaction are guaranteed or otherwise supported by a letter of credit... .” Section
la(18)CA)(v) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. $ lacléy Al) (2018). Alternatively, the Act provides that an
ECP may be a corporate entity with a net worth exceeding $1 million that “enters into an
agreement... in connection with the conduct of the entity’s business or to manage the risk...
reasonably likely to be... mcurred by the entity in the conduct of ... [its] business.” 7 U.S.C.
§ Lall8 Ay) 2018).

B. Prohibition Against Unlawful Retail Commodity Transactions

1S, Section 2(c¢)( 2) D)G) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 3 2(c42)0D)G) (2018), applies to “any

agreement, contract, or transaction in any commodity” that is entered into with, or offered to
 

(even if not entered mto with), a non-ECP—i.c., a person who is a retail customer-——“‘on a
leveraged or margined basis, or financed by the offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting in
concert with the offeror or counterparty on a similar basis” (the aforementioned “retail
commodity transactions’), subject to certaim exceptions not applicable here.

16, Section 2(ch 2) Dui of the Act, 7 USC. § 2c 2)(D aid OES), is an enabling
provision, making Section 4(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 8 6(a) (2018), applicable to retail commodity
transactions “as if” such transactions are contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery.

L7, In relevant part, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a) makes it unlawful for any person to offer to enter
into, enter into, execute, confirm the execution of, or conduct any office or business anywhere im
the United States for the purpose of soliciting, accepting any order for, or otherwise dealing in
any transaction im, or in connection with, a contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for
future delivery unless the transaction is conducted on or subject to the rules of a board of trade
which has been designated or registered by the Commission as a contract market.

Cc. Prohibition Against Unregistered FCMs

18. Section la(28}(A) of the Act, 7 ULS.C. $ la(Q8)C A) (2018), defines an FCM in
relevant part as “an dividual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust... engaged in
soliciting or in accepting orders for... any agreement, contract, or transaction described in...
section 2(cH2)(C)}G) fot the Act, Le. “forex transactions’’] and section 2(c)(2}(D)G) fof the Act,
ie. “retail commodity transactions’ |,” or “acting as a counterparty in any agreement, contract, or
transaction described in section 2(cM2C)G) fof the Act] or section 2(c}2)D)G) [of the Act];
and, in connection with these activities “accepts any money, securities, or property (or extends
credit in heu thereof to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades or contracts that result or may

result therefrom.”
 

19, Section 4d(a)C} of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § Gd(ajd) (2013), makes ut unlawful for any
person to act as an FCM unless such person is registered as such with the Commission.

¥v. FACTS

20. During the Relevant Period, Detendant operated an online trading platform
(‘platform’) accessed through its website, www.paxforex.com (website). Through its platform
and website Defendant solicits or accepts orders from customers, mcluding those im the United
States, for transactions in “Contracts for Difference’ (“CFDs’’) referenced to the prices of
commodities mchiding certain foreign currencies, precious metals, and digital assets. Defendant
aiso solicits customers through its PaxPorex YouTube channel at www.youtube.com.

21. A CED is generally an agreement to exchange the difference m value of an
underlying asset, such as a commodity, between the time at which the CFD trading position
(“position”) is established and the time at which it is terminated.

22. Foreign currencies, gold, silver, ether, htecoin, and bitcoin are “commodities”
under Section La(Q) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § ta(9) (2018).

23. CFD trading on the platform is settled in U.S. Dollars (USD) and bitcoim,
among other assets.

24, Bitcoin, ether, and htecoim are digital representations of value that function as
mediums of exchange, units of account, and/or stores of value, but that do not have legal tender
status in any jurisdiction. Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are distinct from “real” currencies,
which are the coin and paper money of the United States or another country that are designated
as tegal tender, circulate, and are customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in the

couniry of issuance.

6
 

25. To begin trading or open a position on Defendant’s platform, customers complete

a brief registration process through www.paxforex.com. During the registration process,
customers provide, among other information, their country, a physical address, email address,
and phone number to which PaxForex sends email and text messages, respectively, for
verification.

26. For entering personal information, Defendant provides customers with a drop
down menu with an option of selecting the United States as the customer's country of residence
as weil as an American flag symbol that corresponds to the customer’s area code and phone
number.

27. After completing the registration process, U.S. custorners deposit assets such as
USD and bitcoin into an account or wallet controlled by PaxForex as margin or collateral for the
customers trades.

28. When a customer deposits bitcoin as collateral, Defendant credits the customer's
trading account in USD in an amount that is purportedly equivalent to the market value of the
bitcotn.

29. Trades on Defendant’s platform are made using MetaTrader (*MT”’) trading
platform software, which U.S. customers can download from Defendant's website onto their
desktop or mobile devices. For trading foreign currencies, MT presents customers with currency
pairs such as the Euro/USD (EUR/USD) and Australian Dollar/USD (AUD/USD) im which the
first currency is the currency being “bought” or “sold,” and the second currency ts the currency
in which the buy or sell price is quoted.

30. Similarly, for trading digital assets, the platform’s MT presents customers with

pairs unchuding ether/USD CETH/USD), litecoin/USD (LTC/USD), and bitcom/USD
 

(BTC/USD). As is the case with trading foreign currencies on Defendant's platform, the first
asset is the asset being “bought” or “sold” with the price quoted in the second asset, USD.

34, Using MT on Defendant’s platform, U.S. customers can either buy or sell CFDs
(go “long” or “short”) referenced to the prices of foreign currencies, precious metals, and digital
assets on margin with leverages potentially as high as 1/500.

32, In this case, “margin” means the assets a customer deposits with the Defendant as
collateral, while “leverage” allows a customer to control a large amount of a commodity with a
comparatively small amount of margin. Leverage also allows customers to significantly magnify
profits or losses with a relatively small investment.

33. In taking trading positions on Defendant’s platform, U.S. customers speculate on
the price movement of the underlying commodity and either profit or lose based on whether
prices move in their favor or not. There is no actual delivery of the underlying commodity and
customers close their positions by trading equal and opposite positions. Defendant automatically
closes customers’ positions when their losses reduce the value of assets they have deposited to
equal to or fess than five percent of the value of their open positions.

34. When one of Defendant’s agents was contacted by an individual who identified
himself as a U.S. customer, Defendant’s agent actively solicited that individual in this District by
email, and by phone through a U.S. phone number, to transact in CPDs referenced to the prices
of foreign currencies, precious metals, and digital assets on Defendant’s platform.

35, Defendant subsequently accepted orders placed by this U.S. individual on its
platform, from this District, and executed transactions, on a leveraged or margined basis using
bitcom as coHateral margin, in CFDs referencing the price of commodities. In these CFD

transactions, Defendant acted as the counterparty.
et B

 

aA
i
is
bs?!
J
coe
rinse

36. Defendant uses its YouTube channel as a further means of sohciting U.S.
customers. It does this through a promotional video that instructs customers on how to open a
trading account and by providing an “Open Trading Account” hyperlink to PaxForex’s website.

37. PaxPorex’s YouTube channel, along with PaxForex’s website, also contains daily
videos, narrated by one of Defendant’s agents, which promote Defendant’s forecasts and
recommendations for making trades in specific commodities, and periodic videos that tout the
purported profitability of Defendant’s earher trading recommendations and associated forecasts.

38, Additionally, in a blogpost on its website, Defendant touts itself as “The Best
Forex Broker for Beginners in the USA.”

39. Sumiarly, Defendant's website contains customer testimonials from two U.S.
customers, one of whom the website identifies as bemg from the United States, and further
purports to have a U.S. presence with its “IT Infrastructures [which] has been deployed within
industry leading datacenters in London... and New York.”

AQ, Minalfy, Defendant solicits customers, inchiding those in the United States,
through its “Affihate” program. Through this program, Defendant incentivizes U.S. persons to
become “affiliates” by providing them with commussions and other mecentives to solicit
customers to trade CFDs in forex and other commodities on Defendant's platform.

Ay, Defendant fails to check the ECP status of its customers during the customer
registration process. Moreover, Defendant solicits customers to open an account with an initial
deposit of as little as the equivalent of $10 to incentivize trading by retail customers who would

not quality as ECPs,
a a oe AA ey ~ pas a . ne ~ or ew ~ wok
ae ABN ws RSA Tac ermani Miles am MOPPAPIA as TMS Rane TA APTS

ox Sh a q fas APB TF SogL ee Ce ar Pree se BTSs ys Ger Liss 5 gs ose y x > Ta Pig csr yyy
No CASE wes QML WAS Le Rat AS eka PA 8 PSR ASE AS ee alte YooRa rN ‘ RAs aX. MP AS

AO Through the above-described conduct, Defendant offers to enter into, or enters
into, and/or executes leveraged, margined or financed transactions in foreign currencies, precious
metals, and digital assets with non-ECP customers in the United States.

AS. Defendant’s platform is not a designated contract market or derivatives
transaction execution facility, exempt board of trade, or a bona fide foreign board of trade as
those terms are defined in the Act. Indeed in the “Terms and Conditions of business PaxForex
MT4,” which Defendant provides to customers, Defendant acknowledges that us platform is “the
sole Execution Venue [for customers’ orders and trades] which is a nonregulated market.”

AA, As of the date of the filing of this Complaint, PaxForex has not been registered
with the Commission as an RCM,

Vi. STATUTORY VIOLATIONS
COUNT I
PLLEGAL OFF-EXCHANGE TRANSACTIONS
Violations of Section 4(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a) (2018)

AS, Paragraphs 1 through 44 of this Complaint are re-alleged and incorporated herein
by reference.

AG. During the Relevant Period, the retail commodity transactions described im this
Complaint, and as described in Section 2(¢)(2)(D) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2¢) 2D) (2018), were
offered or entered into by Defendant: (a) on a leveraged or margined basis, or financed by the
offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting in concert with the offeror or counterparty on a
sunilar basis; (b) with U.S. persons who are not ECPs or eligible commercial entities as defined
by Sections fa(i7) and La(18) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 88 La(i?), lati&) (20183; and (c} without
being made or conducted on, or subject to, the rules of any board of trade, exchange, or contract

market.
ns om e~ Aa ey os ered A <i a ew oe . . can
Maes ASO RA TP Pacman Milan man AIP ARMA is TRAP Dane PT APTS
Nw CADE St Qe Araneae ae AAS LERAE DIALS ae P PSk A ASE We ar oS ? x a8 8 ks g Rag ke 3 Sb AS

47, Pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 2(c}2)CD)Gn) (2018), the retail commodity transactions in
gold, silver, ether, litecoin, and bitcoim alleged herem are subject to Section 4{a) of the Act,
7 USC. § 6(a} (2018), as if they are contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery.

AB. During the Relevant Period, Detendant violated 7 U.S.C. $ 6(a) by: (a) offering
to enter into, entering into, executing, confirmime the execution of, or conducting an office or
business in the United States for the purpose of soliciting or accepting orders for, or otherwise
dealing in, any transaction in, or m connection with, retail commodity transactions im gold,
silver, ether, litecoin, and bitcoin; and (b) not conducting such transactions on or subject to the
rues of a board of trade which has been designated or registered by the Commission as a
contract market or derivatives transaction facility for such commodities.

AY, The acts and omissions of PaxForex’s officers, employees, and/or agents acting
for PaxForex described in this Complaint were done within the scope of their office,
employment, and/or agency with PaxPorex. Therefore, pursuant to Section 2(a)(1 (B} of the
Act, 7 ULS.C. § 2a) 0B) (2018), and Regulation 1.2, 17 CLP R. 8 1.2 2019), PaxForex is lable
as a principal for each act, omission, or failure of its officers, employees, and/or agents acting for
PaxPorex, constituting violations of 7 U.S.C. $ 6(a).

50, Each act in violation of 7 U.S.C. § 6(a@) including, but not limited to, those
specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a separate and distinct violation.

COUNT
FADLURE TO REGISTER AS AN FCM
Violations of Section 4d(a}(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6d(a)(Z) (2618)
Si. Paragraphs | through 30 of this Complaint are re-alleged and incorporated herein

by reference.
és, AN SRP a ye ™ weed 8 Nes Soy SEU EN BS “A ty sot ee

Maes ASO RA TP Pacman Mian man AIP AMA is TRAP Danes TS Akos

Nw CADE St Qe Araneae ae AAS LERAE DIALS ae Po RSA AED AS a € Y x a8 8 ks g CAG RA. ME AS
ry

52. The leveraged, margined or financed transactions in forex such as EUR/USD and
AUD/USD offered by Defendant to non-ECP U.S. customers constitute retail forex transactions
under Section 2(c)(2)(C}D of the Act, 7 USC. § 2(cK2)OC)G) (2018).

53. The leveraged, margined or financed transactions in gold, silver, ether, htecoin,
and bitcoin offered by Defendant to non-ECP U.S. customers constitute retail commodity
transactions under 7 U.S.C. § 20) DIG).

54. 7US.AC. § 6d{ayL) (2018), provides that it shall be unlawful for any person to be
an FM unless such person is registered with the Commussion as an RCM.

35. During the Relevant Period, PaxForex acted as an FCM by: (a) soliciting or
accepting orders for retail forex transactions as described by 7 U.S.C. 3 2(c)2)(COG), and retail
commodity transactions as described by 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D)@); or (b) acting as a counterparty
for retail forex transactions as described by 7 U.S.C. § 2(c2)(C)G) or retail commodity
transactions as described by 7 U.S.C. 8 2(c2)CD)G); and, (c) in connection with these activities,
accepting money, securities, or property Cor extending credit in hen thereof) to margin trades or
contracts that result or may result therefrom, and failed to register with the Commission as an
RCM, and therefore violated 7 U.S.C. § 6d(ak(1).

56, The acts and omissions of PaxForex’s officers, employees, and/or agents acting
for PaxForex described in this Complaint were done within the scope of their office,
employment, and/or agency with PaxPorex. Therefore, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. $ 2(ayC1\(B), and
[7 CLRLR. § 1.2, PaxForex is liable as a principal for each act, omission, or failure of its officers,
employees, and/or agents acting for PaxForex, constituting violations of 7 ULS.C. § 6d{ajqi).

37. Each act in violation of 7 U.S.C. $ 6d(ajC1} including, but not limited to, those

specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a separate and distinct violation.
ns om e~ ao yes ered A ste a ew ee . . cae
Mace ASO AAA RTP Mncsameani Mian am OOP APH ay TKS Bane TS ab ts
A CASE Sh, Qe AS nea a’ RAS RPM ED DAE Gk Po RSA AED AS a € Y x By 8 ks g RAs Rw ASE AAS

VIE RELIEF REQUESTED
WHEREPORE, the Commussion respectfully requests that this Court, as authorized by
Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2018), and pursuant to its own equitable powers, enter:

A. An order finding that Defendant violated Sections 4(a) and 4d(a)(1) of the Act,
7TULS.C. $8 6fa), 6d) (2078);

8. An order of permanent injunction enjoming Defendant and any other person or
entity associated with it, including but not limited to affilhates, agents, servants,
employees, assigns, attorneys, and all persons im active concert or participation
with Defendant, including any successor thereof, from:

(1) Engaging, directly or indirectly, in conduct m violation of 7 U.S.C. $$ 6fa),
6d(ayc1);

(2) Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 8 1a(40) (2018)):

(3) Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation £.3, 17 C.FLR. § 1.3 @2019)), for its own account(s} or
for any account in which Defendant has a direct or indirect mierest;

(4) Having any commodity interests traded on Defendant’s behalf;

(5) Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or
entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

(G6) Soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose

of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;
C.

— Aa ey os erent ~* <i a ew oe . . pan
PAYER STP Pines mani Mian an AIP AMA is TRAP Danes TA Akos
AM eS Araneae ae AAS LERAE DIALS ae Po RSA AED AS a € Y x a8 8 ks g RAs AAS Ast AAS

(7) Applyme for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission, except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a}(9), 17 CLP_LR. § 4.14(a)(9) (2019), and/or

(8) Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.PLR.
$ 3.1(a} 2019)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person (as that
term is defined in 7 U.S.C. § ta(38) O18), registered, exempted from
registration, or required to be registered with the Commission except as
provided for in 17 CLPLR. 8 4 L4(ay9)).

An order directing Defendant to pay a civil monetary penalty for each viclation of

the Act of not more than the amount set forth by Section 6c(d}(1) of the Act,

TUS AC. § [3a-1(dC) (2018), as adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal

Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, Pub. L.

[i4—74, 129 Stat. 584 (2015), tithe VIL, Section 701, and promulgated in

Regulation 143.8, 17 CLERK. § 143.8 QOL), plus post-judgment interest;

An order directing Defendant, as well as any successor thereof, to disgorge,

pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, all benefits received

including, but not limited to, trading profits, revenues, salaries, commissions,
fees, or loans derived directly or indirectly from acts or practices which constitute
violations of the Act, as described herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest
thereon from the date of such violations;

An order directing Defendant, as well as any successor thereof, to make full

restitution, pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, to every customer
H.

PALSY RS TP Macs mani Saad an APS Ares in TREY Cane TR ab ts
AMA WTA RAE AW ASLSLEE EAE SS PE RSR A AE Se ee alte YP oe 8 SNS FO GALA Sat Nt A.
ss

whose funds Defendant received, or caused another person or entity to receive, as
a result of the acts and practices constituting violations of the Act, as described
herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from the date of such
violations;

An order directing Defendant, as well as any successor thereof, to rescind,
pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, all contracts and agreements,
whether express or imphed, entered into between or with Defendant and any
customer whose funds were received by Defendant as a result of the acts and
practices which constituted violations of the Act, as described herein;

An order directing that Defendant, and any successor thereof, make an accounting
to the Court of all of its assets and habilities, together with all funds ut received
from and paid to customers and other persons in connection with commodity
transactions and all disbursements for any purpose whatsoever of fands received
from commodity transactions, including salaries, commusstons, interest, fees,
loans, and other disbursement of money or property of any kind from at least the
beginning of the Relevant Period to the date of such accounting;

An order requiring Defendant and any successor thereof to pay costs and fees as
permitted by 28 ULS.C. $8 1920 and 2412(a}(2) 2018): and

An order providing such other and farther relief as the Court deers proper.
Case 4:20-cv-03317 Document1 Filed on 09/24/20 in TXSD_ Page 16 of 16

Dated: September 25, 2020

16

Respectfully submitted,

s/ Harry E. Wedewer

Harry E. Wedewer
Attorney-in-Charge

D.C. Bar No. 975819 (pro hac vice
admission pending)

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

1155 21st Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20581
Telephone: (202) 418-5189
Facsimile: (202) 418-5538

 

Candice Aloisi

NY Bar No. 4342184 (pro hac vice
admission pending)

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

140 Broadway, 19th floor

New York, NY 10005

Telephone: (646) 746-9845

Facsimile: (646) 746-9898

Manal Sultan

NY Bar No. 2738805 (pro hac vice
admission pending)

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

140 Broadway, 19th floor

New York, NY 10005

Telephone: (646) 746-9761

Facsimile: (646) 746-9898

Attorneys for Plaintiff
