2020-BCFP-0019 Document’ Filed 10/27/2020 Page 1 of 24

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP-0019

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Washington Federal Bank, N.A.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
data-collection, recording, and reporting practices of Washington Federal Bank,
N.A. (Respondent, as defined below) and hasidentified the following law violations:
Respondent’s mortgage-loan data for 2016 and 2017 contained errors in violation
of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 2801-2810, its
implementing regulation, Regulation C, 12 C.F.R. pt. 1003,' and § 1036(a)(1)(A) of
the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C.

§ 5536(a)(1)(A). Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§5563, 5565, the

Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).

' All references to Regulation C are to the version in effect during the Relevant
Period.
Jurisdiction
The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, and § 2804 of HMDA, 12 U.S.C.
§§ 2804(b) & (d).
II.
Stipulation
Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated October 19, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under
§§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting
or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.
HII.
Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
a. “Board” means Respondent’s duly elected and acting Board of

Directors.
ASAN Peer AAAS
POOL RCE ELAN TS
in bad Be KP nd Nt :

g
o
D
3
of
2
2
BD
“
2
3
D
3
3
2

“Covered Loans” are applications for, originations of, and purchases
of home-purchase loans, home-improvement loans, and refinancings
that Respondent is required to report on a HMDA Loan/Application
Register for each calendar year under HMDA and Regulation C.
“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
entered on the administrative docket.

“HMDA Data” are mortgage-loan data submitted in accordance with
HMDA, 12 U.S.C. § 2803, and Regulation C, 12 C.F.R. § 1003.4.
“HMDA Loan/Application Register” or “HMDA LAR” is the
compilation of information about each applicant or borrower, reported
on a loan-by-loan, application-by-application basis, in accordance
with HMDA and Regulation C.

“Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the West Region
for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection, or his or her delegate.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent

Order.
h. ‘Relevant Period” includes the period from January 1, 2016, to

December 31, 2017.
1. “Respondent” means Washington Federal Bank, N.A., and its

successors and assigns.
IV.

Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

4.

Respondent is a federally insured, for-profit national bank headquartered in
Seattle, Washington.

Respondent is an insured depository institution with total assets greater than
$10,000,000 within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 5515(a). Respondent’s total
assets as of December 31, 2016, were about $14,873,654,000; its total assets
as of December 31, 2017, were about $15,584,013,000.

Respondent is a “covered person” under 12 U.S.C. §5481(6).

Respondent originated more than $1 billion in 2016 and $1 billion again in
2017 in home-purchase loans, including refinancings of home-purchase
loans.

On December 3 |st of both 2016 and 2017, Respondent had a branch office
that was approved by a federal agency in a Metropolitan Statistical Area

(MSA) for HMDA-reporting purposes.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

In 2016 and 2017, Respondent received applications for, originated, or
purchased over ftve Covered Loans related to properties in multiple MSAs
or Metropolitan Divisions.

Respondent is a federally insured or regulated entity. 12 C.F.R. § 1003.2.
Respondent is a depository institution required to report HMDA data as
defined in Regulation C, 12 C.F.R. § 1003.2.

Including refinancings of home-purchase loans, Respondent originated more
than 3,484 home-purchase loans in 2016 and 3,284 home-purchase loans in
2017.

Respondent reported data on over 7,000 Covered Loans on each of its 2016
and 2017 HMDA LARs. On March 1, 2017, Respondent submitted its 2016
HMDA LAR. On March 1, 2018, Respondent submitted its 2017 HMDA
LAR, and on May 24, 2018, resubmitted its 2017 LAR.

Respondent’s 2016 HMDA LAR submission and 2017 HMDA LAR
Submission and resubmission to the Bureau included significant errors that
exceeded the applicable thresholds.

An internal audit of Respondent’s 2016 HMDA LAR identified 40 files
containing errors in a review of 100 files, a 40% error rate.

A Bureau review of 84 files in Respondent’s initial 2017 HMDA LAR

identified 58 errors in 27 files, a 32% sample error rate.
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

ANAS Pe Peer AAA A
POPORCE ELAN AS
et Bae GP Ba Nt :

g
o
D
2
2
BD
2
3
D
3
2

With respect to Respondent’s resubmitted 2017 HMDA LAR, the Bureau
reviewed 81 files and identified 21 errors in 13 files, a 16% sample error
rate.

These sample error rates indicate the presence of large numbers of errors in
the LAR that exceed the applicable thresholds.

The 2016 HMDA errors were caused by a lack of appropriate staff,
insufficient staff training, and ineffective quality control.

The 2017 HMDA errors are directly related to weaknesses in Respondent’s
compliance-management system (CMS), especially in the areas of Board
and management oversight, monitoring, and policies and procedures.

In connection with its 2017 LAR resubmission, Respondent imposed an
incorrect policy, which directly led to the errors in its resubmitted LAR.
Respondent failed to put in place an adequate system of monitoring controls
that could promptly identify and correct weaknesses and violations in the
2016 and 2017 HMDA LAR.

The occurrence of errors in many different fields, rather than concentrated in
one or two fields, indicates broad CMS failures and a lack of adequate
resources, because the errors were not caught, and the errors cannot be

directly attributed to one or two systemic failures.
24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

The Bureau entered a consent order against Respondent on October 9, 2013,
finding that Respondent violated HMDA and Regulation C. The 2013
consent order required Respondent to review, correct, and resubmit its 2011
HMDA LAR and imposed a $34,000 penalty.

Respondent continued, after the Bureau’s 2013 consent order, to report
inaccurate HMDA data with error rates that exceed applicable thresholds.
Respondent has not maintained a CMS with procedures reasonably adapted
to avoid HMDA LAR errors, and thus the errors are intentional and not bona
fide errors.

Bureau Findings and Conclusions as to
Violations of HMDA and Regulation C

As implemented by Regulation C, HMDA requires covered institutions to
collect and report mortgage-loan data regarding applications for, originations
of, and purchases of home-purchase loans, home-improvement loans, and
refinancings for each calendar year. 12 U.S.C. §§ 2802(3), (5), 2803; 12
C.F.R. §§ 1003.2 (definition of “financial institution”), 1003.4(a), (b).
Respondent is required to collect and report dataon Covered Loans in
compliance with HMDA and Regulation C. 12 U.S.C. §$ 2802(3), (5), 2803;

12 C.F.R. §§ 1003.2 (definition of “financial institution”), 1003.4(a), (b).
29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

ANU PE OA ~~ ; Coa wees Dk TPN ON
SOOO REE LAATS Mactimant 1 Rita Too eI aery <
sn ad oe A? POPUPS b RAO t PRAGA GUY a Pt

- a ea
Pane & ot a
Po GaN LP RE OF

Respondent’s 2016 HMDA LAR submission and 2017 HMDA LAR
submission and resubmission to the Bureau included significant errors that
exceeded the applicable thresholds.
Between at least January 1, 2016, and December 31, 2017, Respondent did
not maintain procedures reasonably adapted to avoid errors in its HMDA
LAR.
Respondent knew or should have known of the inadequacies of its HMDA
compliance mechanisms and the substantial risk of HMDA reporting errors
in its 2016 and 2017 LAR submissions and 2017 resubmission.
Respondent’s HMDA-reporting errors are not bona fide errors within the
meaning of Regulation C. 12 C.F.R. § 1003.6(b).
Respondent’s 2016 and 2017 submissions and 2017 resubmission contained
errors, in violation of HMDA, 12 U.S.C. § 2803, and Regulation C, 12
C.F.R. §§ 1003.4, 1003.5.

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of the CFPA
Section 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA prohibits a covered person from offering
or providing to a consumer any financial product or service not in
conformity with “Federal consumer financial law” or otherwise committing
any act or omission in violation of a “Federal consumer financial law.” 12

U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A); 12 U.S.C. § 5481(12), (14).
35. Respondent’s HMDA and Regulation C violations, described above,
constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C.

§ 5536(a)(1)(A).
CONDUCT PROVISIONS
V.
Develop a HMDA Compliance-Management System

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:

36. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate § 304(a), (b), or (h) of HMDA, 12 U.S.C.

§ 2803(a), (b), (h), or §§ 1003.4(a)-(b) or 1003.5(a) of Regulation C, 12
C.F.R. §§ 1003.4(a)-(b), 1003.5(a).

37. Within 60 days of the Effective Date, Respondent shall retain one or more
independent consultants, with specialized experience in HMDA compliance,
not subject to any conflict of interest, and acceptable to the Regional
Director, to conduct a review of Respondent’s program to manage
compliance with HMDA.

a. The review shall include all systems, programs, policies, and
procedures to ensure the accuracy of, and to prevent, identify, and

correct errors in, HMDA data.
38.

39.

PPAR OPE IEE PO ot oe ry . oA pea y OP NE PR ax Agr “Ns
SPAM RSs re Pe APA Pree ey ceed of Clad TAPS 7 fFOOSN Brees, AO at D4
Se ae Oe al es ee ee Li) POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT ETBAP YY Gis 2 FP oil Pe et es Pk Ge we
Ban St at LU AP whe te Be AS Pe kd Shae kd ar < ; 5 oR A ot

b. Within 120 days of the Effective Date, the independent consultant
shall submit to Respondent a written report detailing the findings of
the review (Consultant Report).

Respondent must take the following affirmative actions:

a. develop and implement a HMDA compliance-management system
including policies, procedures, and internal controls to ensure
compliance with the data-collection and reporting requirements in
HMDA and Regulation C;

b. develop and implement a compliance audit program to regularly test
HMDA data integrity; and

C. develop and maintain operating policies and training procedures to
ensure that personnel understand HMDA standards and reporting
requirements under HMDA and Regulation C.

VI.
Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 60 days of recetving the Consultant Report, Respondent must submit

to the Regional Director for review and determination of non-objection a

comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s

collection, recording, and reporting of HMDA Data and HMDA policies,
40).

Al.

PAA PRE RA OA ~ . oA pea y OP NE PR
SPAM RSs re Pe APA Payee cssscamd 4 Cilad 4Af/O 7 FGASGN
Se ae Oe al es ee ee Li) POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe beO ee GG et FF et hee e
hn Sad ate RP Bat RPA TAS Pd eke re : < :

procedures, and CMS comply with all applicable Federal consumer financial

laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan), along with a

copy of the Consultant Report. The Compliance Plan must include, at a

minimum:

a. detailed steps to be taken by Respondent’s directors, officers,
employees, and agents to correct any deficiencies identified in the
Consultant Report and to implement its recommendations and a

detailed explanation for why any recommendation is not being

implemented;

b. detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent
Order; and

C. specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the

affirmative actions required by this Consent Order.
The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If the
Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the requested revisions and resubmit the revised
Compliance Plan to the Regional Director within 15 days of the date that the
Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan.

After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a
PAA PRE RA OA ~~ . oA pansy Ok TEN Ee ax Af “oN e
SOOO Derm Amo Pree ey ceed of Clad TAPS 7 fFOOSN Brees, FD af D4
ee eh feet ore beat oF 13 POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe beO ee GG et FF et hee e PY ati test ob fr ws
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed Poyits DU er Pea SAN Btn Aad on

determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

VII.

Role of the Board

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

42.

43.

44.

The Board must review all documents (including plans, reports, programs,
policies, and procedures) required by this Consent Order before submission
to the Bureau.

Although this Consent Order requires Respondent to submit certain
documents for review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the Board
will have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound management of
Respondent and for ensuring that Respondent complies with the laws that
the Bureau enforces, including Federal consumer financial law and this
Consent Order.

In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure
adherence to the Consent Order, or perform certain obligations of
Respondent, the Board must:

a. authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondent to fully

comply with the Consent Order;
b. require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of
compliance obligations; and
C. require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any
material non-compliance with any failures to comply with Board
directives related to this Section.
VII.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalties

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

45.

46.

47.

48.

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law and regulation described in Section IV of this Consent
Order, and taking into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3),
Respondent must pay a civil money penalty of $200,000 to the Bureau.
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) ofthe CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under

this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
49.

ARAM SAP ANAS PN oe a my at TENE I
POORER DIAN Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan TAPP Re Aey
Ban Nd atin at Ba RE : BA AEN Pa Pie ie : AA

the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil money
penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
or monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of
the civil money penalty paid in this action. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the

amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.
50.

SI.

52.

53.

AYA PEP PR A os PU aa aun Pee A PNT ET Roe, ATT wT ONS
POS ORE RELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfO7 fe oeo Rane T5 of 34
Ba Sf tn ST et ; BHAA Ed PoP Glee PP aa Y CALS Bue Aa

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law, and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.
PSP PROP Py . oA pay Ok TEN Ee a Ae “oN e
SOOO EE ANAS Peek crescendo iad AAP FON Meese TE AL OA
Se ae Oe al es ee ee Li) POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT ETBAP YY Gis 2 FP oil PY ati thst ont fi we
Bon dl ate RU Ra JM Es Be AS Pe kd BO Pee OF A Pee 3 of Xet Pati

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
IX.

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

54.

55.

56.

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filmg of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must designate at least one
telephone number and email, physical, and postal addresses as points of
contact that the Bureau may use to communicate with Respondent.
Respondent must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 55 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after learning about the change, whichever is sooner.
57.

58.

59.

feria ett
Boe SF ne

PAA PRE RA OA ~ . oA pansy Ok TEN Ee ax ate ~
SPAM RSs re Pe APA Pree ey ceed of Clad TAPS 7 fFOOSN Bie, FF at Of
Se ae Oe al es ee ee Li) POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe Ge PTs et : PY ati test of yf yt
SoS MUP Ee e\S fae Ret AE PPR EEG Sobek of ea ie 3 Sghe off Ant

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again at least annually,
Respondent must submit to the Regional Director an accurate written
compliance progress report (Compliance Report) that has been approved by
the Board, which, at a minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan; and

C. attaches a copy of each Consent Order acknowledgment obtained
under Section X, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

X.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that,
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of

this Consent Order to each of its Board members and executive officers, as
60.

61.

62.

ARAN SAPS Amat PN oe a emt ot A ETI mo A RE
POS ORE RELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfO7 fe oeo Pane Th af
Sa tet : BA AEN Pa POPS! fA ae Pa : SNS FL kes

well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.

For the duration of the Consent Order, Respondent must deliver a copy of
this Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in
structure referred to in Section IX, any future Board members and executive
officers, as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other
agents and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the
subject matter of the Consent Order, before they assume their
responsibilities.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging
receipt of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic
signatures comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C.

§ 7001 et seg., within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy
of this Consent Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 59-60 and a copy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under

Paragraph 61.
63.

64.

65.

PAA PRE RA OA ~~ . oA pansy Ok TEN Ee ax AY “oN e
SOOO Derm Amo Pree ey ceed of Clad TAPS 7 fFOOSN Bree, PTO at D4
Se ae Oe al es ee ee Li) POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT ETBAP YY Gis 2 FP oil Be SAY UPA ENT eg
Batt UPd Mf bas RPA TAS Pd Dae at So fF Sn SP : : ta ot

XI.

Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must create, or if already created must retain for the duration of
the Consent Order, all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full
compliance with each provision of this Consent Order, including all
submissions to the Bureau.
Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 63 for the
duration of the Consent Order.
Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 63 available
to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XII.

Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

66.

Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “In re
Washington Federal Bank, N.A., File No. 2020-BCFP-0019,” and send
them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and

contemporaneously email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:
AOA PAE Am ~ . 4 om Ee ~~ ~e nN
2H BER AGG Mie issycinmt 4 Cuan 4A FO 7 Pea Marc OF vt Det
CITES eke ba RARE EERE rita ie.i ig NS : Se A A at

Regional Director, Bureau West Region
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
301 Howard Street, Suite 1200
San Francisco, CA 94105.
XII.
Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

67. Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested information,
which must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony; or
produce documents.

68. Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview any employee
or other person affiliated with Respondent who has agreed to such an
interview. The person interviewed may have counsel present.

69. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.

XIV.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

70. Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this

Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
71.

72.

73.

APA PR OAR Ae ot ~ : of pea y . 4 nee ae
SAO Ree T Nya Payee cssscamd 4 Silas AAP PP POAIS
Se ae Oe al es ee ee Li) POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe beO ee GG et FF et hee e
hn Sad ate RP Bat RPA TAS Pd Ve re : é :

requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.
The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines that
good cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the
Regional Director must be in writing.

XV.

Administrative Provisions

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau, or any other governmental agency, from taking any other action
against Respondent, except as described in Paragraph 73. Further, for the
avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop,
or otherwise prevent any other person or governmental agency from taking
any action against Respondent.
The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in

this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
74.

75.

ARAM SAP ANAS PN oe a mt A IAA
PHP OW CE RLOAYTG Rineiinant 4 Pilla (9/37 /ORon
OVP SOAS ; LAA TRSEL Hea peg fi}

affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
consent order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 10 years from the Effective Date or 10
years from the most recent date that the Bureau initiates an action alleging
any violation of the Consent Order by Respondent. If such action is
dismissed or the relevant adjudicative body rules that Respondent did not
violate any provision of the Consent Order, and the dismissal or ruling is
either not appealed or upheld on appeal, then the Consent Order will
terminate as though the action had never been filed. Calculation of time
limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based on calendar days,
unless otherwise noted. The Consent Order will remain effective and
enforceable until such time, except to the extent that any provisions of this

Consent Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in
76.

77.

78.

79.

AYA PEP PR A os PU aa aun Pee A PNT ET Pe ewe, NS x
POS ORE RELOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad TOfO7 fe oeo Rane O32 of
Ba Sf tn ST et ; BHAA Ed POPPA OF A Pe : Lage dwt Ad

writing by the Bureau or its designated agent.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found, and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be

construed as allowing Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to
 

2020-BCFP-0019 Document1 Filed 10/27/2020 Page 24 of 24

Violate any law, rule, or regulation.

24R
IT ISSO ORDERED, this! day of October, 2020.

24

Billy kaa

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director

Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection
