Release Number 7231-15
September 17, 2015

CFTC Orders Bitcoin Options Trading Platform Operator and its CEO to Cease Illegally
Offering Bitcoin Options and to Cease Operating a Facility for Trading or Processing of
Swaps without Registering

In First Action against an Unregistered Bitcoin Options Trading
Platform, CFTC Holds that Bitcoin and Other Virtual Currencies Are a
Commodity Covered by the Commodity Exchange Act

Washington, D.C. — The Commodity Futures Trading Commission today issued an Order filing and simultaneously
settling charges against Coinflip, Inc. d/b/a Derivabit (Coinflip) and its chief executive officer Francisco Riordan for
conducting activity related to commodity options transactions without complying with the Commodity Exchange Act
(CEA) and CFTC Regulations, specifically, by operating a facility for the trading or processing of commodity options
without complying with the CEA or CFTC Regulations otherwise applicable to swaps or conducting the activity pursuant to
the CFTC’s exemption for trade options. Coinflip is based in San Francisco, California, and Riordan resides in San
Francisco.

The Order finds that, from in or about March 2014 to at least August 2014, Coinflip and Riordan operated an online
facility named Derivabit, offering to connect buyers and sellers of Bitcoin option contracts.

The Order requires Coinflip and Riordan to cease and desist from further violations of the CEA and Regulations, as
charged, and to comply with specified undertakings.

Aitan Goelman, the CFTC’s Director of Enforcement, commented: “While there is a lot of excitement surrounding Bitcoin
and other virtual currencies, innovation does not excuse those acting in this space from following the same rules
applicable to all participants in the commodity derivatives markets.”

The CFTC Order finds that Coinflip designated put and call options for the delivery of Bitcoins as eligible for trading on the
Derivabit platform. Under Section 4c of the CEA and Part 32 of the CFTC’s Regulations, commodity option transactions
must either be conducted in compliance with provisions of the CEA or Regulations otherwise applicable to swaps, or
conducted pursuant to Regulation 32.3, the “trade option” exemption. In the Order, the CFTC for the first time finds that
Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are properly defined as commodities. The Order further finds that the activities
related to commodity option transactions were not conducted in compliance with a provision of the CEA or a provision of
the Regulations otherwise applicable to swaps, and were not conducted pursuant to the Regulation 32.3 “trade option”
exemption.

Additionally, the Order finds that Coinflip operated a facility for the trading of swaps but did not register the facility as a
Swap Execution Facility or Designated Contract Market, as required. The CEA’s definition of “swap” includes option
contracts. Accordingly, Coinflip violated Section 5h(a)(1) of the CEA and Regulation 37.3(a)(1). Because Riordan
controlled Coinflip, directly or indirectly, and did not act in good faith or knowingly induced, directly or indirectly,
Coinflip’s acts in violations of the CEA and Regulations, Riordan is liable for all of Coinflip’s violations of the CEA and
Regulations, the Order finds.

Coinflip and Riordan cooperated with the Division of Enforcement’s investigation.

The Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this action are David W. Oakland, K. Brent Tomer, Lenel
Hickson, Jr., and Manal M. Sultan.

-CFTC-
