oO J i) Ww 4+. us

O

 

1 | MARC J. FAGEL (State Bar No. 154425)

MICHAEL S. DICKE (State Bar No. 158187)
JINA L. CHOI (New York State Bar No. 2699718)
ELENA RO (State Bar No. 197308)

Attorneys for Plaintiff

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION A
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800 Wm, .
San Francisco, California 94104 “Op

Telephone: (415) 705-2500
Facsimile: (415) 705-2501

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA
SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION

i A Cc) “(| ()
12 Gol

= , €
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, | Case Ney YJ de
Plaintiff,
COMPLAINT CRp

ORACLE CORPORATION,

V.

Defendant.

 

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) alleges:
SUMMARY OF THE ACTION

l. This matter involves violations of the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Oracle Corporation (“Oracle” or “the
Company”), a Redwood Shores, California-based software company. From 2005 to 2007, certain
employees of Oracle’s Indian subsidiary Oracle India Private Limited (“Oracle India”) secretly
“parked” a portion of the proceeds from certain sales to the Indian government and put the money to
unauthorized use, creating the potential for bribery or embezzlement. These Oracle India employees
structured more than a dozen transactions so that a total of around $2.2 million was held by the

Company’s distributors and kept off Oracle India’s corporate books. The Oracle India employees

| SEC y, ORACLE CORP
COMPLAINT
Oo eo ND OH F&F W NO =

wo NHN PO NO HW NHN NHN NHN NO — st woe mm emt
oN A A BF ODS § FS CHO RA AF HH |= GS

 

co ai

would then direct its distributor to disburse payments out of the unauthorized side funds to purported
local “vendors.” Several of the “vendors” were merely storefronts that did not provide any services.

2. Oracle failed to accurately record these side funds on the Company’s books and
records, and failed to implement or maintain a system of effective internal accounting controls to
prevent improper side funds in violation of the FCPA, which requires public companies to keep
books and records that accurately reflect their operations.

3. The Commission seeks an order permanently enjoining Oracle from violations of the
books and records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA, and requiring Oracle to pay a civil
monetary penalty.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

4. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d) and 27 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act’) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d) and 78aa]. Defendant has,
directly or indirectly, made use of the means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce and of the
mails in connection with the acts, transactions, practices and courses of business alleged in this
Complaint.

5. Venue in this District is proper pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
§ 78aa] because Defendant maintains its headquarters and transacts business within the Northern
District of California.

6. Intradistrict assignment to the San Francisco Division is proper pursuant to Civil
L.R. 3-2(c) because Oracle’s headquarters is located in the County of San Mateo.

DEFENDANT

7. Oracle Corporation is a Delaware corporation with headquarters in Redwood Shores,
California. Oracle is an enterprise software company and a provider of computer hardware products
and services. Shares of Oracle stock are registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Exchange Act and the company files reports pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act. The
company’s shares are listed on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “ORCL.” Oracle

operates in India through its wholly-owned subsidiary Oracle India Private Limited.

? SEC v. ORACLE CORP.
COMPLAINT
& Ww bd

oOo wo nN DH Ww

10
1
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
i9
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

 

oo ~

FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

A. Oracle India Employees Created A Side Fund At Its Distributors And Did Not Properly

Account For It

8. From 2005 to 2007, Oracle India sold products and services to Indian government end
users through local distributors and then directed excess funds from the sales to be “parked” outside
Oracle’s books and records.

9. At the time, Oracle India’s typical business model involved selling Oracle software
licenses and services through local distributors who had written agreements with Oracle India. In the
transactions at issue, Oracle India was heavily involved in identifying and working with the end user
customers in selling products and services to them and negotiating the final price. The purchase
order, however, was placed by the customer with Oracle India’s distributor. The distributor bought
the licenses and services directly from Oracle, and then resold them to the customer at the higher
price that had been negotiated by Oracle India. The difference between what the government end user
paid the distributor and what the distributor paid Oracle typically is referred to as “margin,” which the
distributor generally retains as payment for its services.

10. Onapproximately 14 occasions related to 8 different government contracts between
2005 and 2007, certain Oracle India employees created extra margins between the end user and
distributor price and directed the distributors to hold the extra margin in side funds. Oracle India’s
employees made these margins large enough to ensure a side fund existed to pay third parties. At the
direction of the Oracle India employees, the distributor then made payments out of the side funds to
third parties, purportedly for marketing and development expenses. Some of the recipients of these
payments were not on Oracle’s approved local vendor list; indeed, some of the third parties did not
exist and were merely storefronts.

11. Because the Oracle India employees concealed the existence of the side fund, Oracle
did not properly account for these side funds. These funds constituted prepaid marketing expenses
incurred by Oracle India and should have been recorded as an asset and rolled up to Oracle’s
corporate books and records. These marketing expenses should then have been reflected in the

income statement once they were used. Instead, the parked funds were not reflected on Oracle India’s

3 SEC v. ORACLE CORP.
COMPLAINT
wo fe NY NWN HW & WY NO —

po NO NO NH HN BH HN RO) NO we momo ll let
ao nN DN YN F&F WHY HO -|& CD OBO OH NQ DH WN F&F YW NH | BS

 

o~ om

books and were not properly recorded as prepaid marketing expenses. This incorrect accounting in
turn affected Oracle’s books and records.

12. Between 2005 and 2007, government customers paid Oracle India’s distributors at
least $6.7 million on these sales, with Oracle receiving approximately $4.5 million in revenue,

resulting in about $2.2 million in funds improperly “parked” with the Company’s distributors.

B. Absent Proper Controls, Oracle India Employees Used Side Funds To Pay Unauthorized

Third Parties

13. Oracle India’s parked funds created a risk that they potentially could be used for illicit
means, such as bribery or embezzlement. Such risk can be highlighted by the following example of
the largest government contract that involved parked funds used for unauthorized third party
payments.

14. In May 2006, Oracle India secured a $3.9 million deal with India’s Ministry of
Information Technology and Communications. Oracle’s distributor accepted payment from the end
user for the full $3.9 million. Under the direction of Oracle India’s then Sales Director, the
distributor sent approximately $2.1 million to Oracle, which Oracle booked as revenue on the
transaction. |

15. Oracle India employees then directed the distributor to keep approximately $151,000
as payment for the distributor’s services. The Oracle India employees further instructed the
distributor to “park” the remaining approximately $1.7 million to be used for disbursement towards
“marketing development purposes.” Several Oracle India employees were aware of the parked funds
arrangement, which violated Oracle’s internal corporate policies.

16. | Two months later, an Oracle India employee provided Oracle India’s distributor with
eight invoices for payments to third party vendors, in amounts ranging from approximately $110,000
to $396,000. These invoices were later found to be fake. None of these third parties, which were just
storefronts and provided no services on the deal, were on Oracle’s approved vendor list. As directed
by the Oracle India employees, the distributor sent out the third party payments, which created the

potential that they could be used for bribery or embezzlement.

4 SEC v. ORACLE CORP.
COMPLAINT
Oo Co JN HB A F&F WY BO —

BS PO NHN NN WB NO NI KROQ RD wm mmm le
eo NH DA FA SF WwW NH —|§ DF OBO CO JD BDH A BF Ww NH & CS

 

~ ~

17. | Oracle lacked the proper controls to prevent its employees at Oracle India from
creating and misusing the parked funds. For example, Oracle knew distributor discounts created a
margin of cash from which distributors received payments for their services. Before 2009, however,
the Company failed to audit and compare the distributor’s margin against the end user price to ensure
excess margins were not being built into the pricing structure.

18. ‘In addition, although Oracle maintained corporate policies requiring approvals for
payment of marketing expenses, Oracle failed to seek transparency in or audit third party payments
made by distributors on Oracle India’s behalf. This control would have enabled Oracle to check that

payments were made to appropriate recipients.
C. Oracle Later Implemented Remedial Measures To Improve FCPA Compliance

19, By November 2007, Oracle India’s Senior Channel Sales Manager had resigned and
left Oracle India. As a result of an internal investigation that the Oracle Asia division escalated after
a local tax inquiry to Oracle India’s distributor, Oracle terminated four other Oracle India employees
based on their knowledge that Oracle India parked funds at its distributors.

20.‘ In addition, Oracle took other remedial measures to address the risk and controls
related to parked funds, including: conducting additional due diligence in its partner transactions in
India so that Oracle had greater transparency into end user pricing in government contracts;
terminating its relationship with the distributor involved in the transactions at issue; directing its
distributors not to allow the creation of side funds; requiring additional representations and warranties
from distributors to include the fact that no side funds exist; and enhancing training for its partners
and employees to address anti-corruption policies. |

FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act (Books and Records)
[15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]

21. Paragraphs | through 20 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.
22. As described above, Oracle failed to make and keep books, records and accounts
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its

assets.

5 SEC v, ORACLE CORP.
COMPLAINT
Oo 6 YQ A A BP Ww LN

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

 

23. By reason of the foregoing, Defendant violated, and unless restrained and enjoined
will continue to violate, the books-and-records provision of the FCPA, codified as Section
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act (Internal Controls)
[15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]

24. Paragraphs | through 20 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by reference.

25. With respect to the side funds and payments described above, Oracle failed to devise
and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that:
(i) transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
and (ii) transactions were recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and to maintain accountability for its assets.

26. By reason of the foregoing, Defendant violated, and unless restrained and enjoined
will continue to violate, the internal-controls provision of the FCPA, codified as Section 13(b)(2)(B)
of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court:

I.

Issue an order permanently restraining and enjoining Defendant and its agents, servants,
employees, attorneys, and all persons in active concert or participation with them who receive actual
notice of the order by personal service or otherwise from violating, directly or indirectly, Sections
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)].

I.
Issue an order directing Oracle to pay a civil monetary penalty pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)].

6 SEC v. ORACLE CORP.
COMPLAINT
oe fo SN DH WH SF W NI

10
1i
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24 I

25
26
27
28

 

em om

 

Hil,
Retain jurisdiction of this action in accordance with the principles of equity and the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure in order to implement and carry out the terms of all orders and decrees that
may be entered, or to entertairi any suitable application or motion for additional relief within the
jurisdiction of this Court.
IV.
Grant such other relief as this Court may deem just and appropriate.
Respectfully submitted,
Dated: August 16, 2012 Z C- oA a
Marc J. F age)”
Michael S. Dicke
Jina L. Choi
Elena Ro

Attormeys for Plaintiff
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

7 SEC v. ORACLE CORP.

COMPLAINT —
