UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77555 / April 7, 2016

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17204

 

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP., EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER
I,

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act’), against Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC,” “the
company,” or “Respondent’).

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

Hil.

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
Respondent

1. Las Vegas Sands Corp., based in Las Vegas, Nevada, was incorporated as a
Nevada corporation in August 2004. LVSC owns and operates integrated resorts and casinos in
Asia and the United States through a network of subsidiaries. The company’s common stock is
registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, and it is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “LVS.”

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

2. Sands China Ltd. (“SCL”) is an LVSC subsidiary that was incorporated in the
Cayman Islands in July 2009. Since November 2009, shares of SCL have been traded on the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange (Stock Code: 1928). LVSC owns 70.1% of the shares.

3. Venetian Macao Ltd. (VML) is an SCL subsidiary through which SCL operates in
Macao. Prior to the incorporation of SCL, VML was a wholly-owned subsidiary of LVSC.

4. Venetian (Zhuhai Henggin) Hotel Co. Ltd. (“WHQ”), is an LVSC subsidiary that is
a wholly foreign-owned entity (“WFOE”) established under Chinese law in February 2007. The
business scope of VHQ was the construction and development of hotel and ancillary facilities,
hotel management, and related consulting services.

5. Venetian (Zhuhai) Hotel Marketing Co. Ltd. (“WHM7”), is an LVSC subsidiary that
is a WFOE established under Chinese law in October 2007. When formed, the business scope of
VHM was hotel management, marketing, and consulting services for convention and exhibition.
In March 2008, among other services, ferry services were added to the business scope of VHM.

6. Beijing Asia Travel Alliance Business Consulting Co., Ltd. (“BATA”), is an
LVSC subsidiary that is a WFOE established under Chinese law in July 2008. When formed, the
business scope of BATA was hotel management, corporate image planning, and information
consulting. In November 2008, its business scope was expanded to include advertising, sports
agency business, investment management and consulting, financial planning, and property
management.

Summary

7. This matter concerns the failure of LVSC to devise and maintain a reasonable
system of internal accounting controls over its operations in the People’s Republic of China
(“PRC” or “China’”’) and the Macao Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of
China (“Macao”) from 2006 through at least 2011. As a result, funds totaling more than $62
million were transferred to a consultant’ in China over a series of transactions under

 

' The Consultant, LVSC President and Chief Operating Officer, LVSC President of Asian Development

(formerly Vice-President of Asian Development), LVSC Senior Director of Finance, LVSC CFO, and members of
the SCL Audit Services Group referred to herein are no longer employed or engaged by the company.

2
circumstances that frequently lacked supporting documentation or appropriate authorization.
Moreover, most of the transfers occurred despite knowledge by senior LVSC management that
they could not account for significant funds previously transferred to the consultant in an
environment where significant bribery risks were present. This lack of controls impacted other
transactions, such as gifts and entertainment for foreign officials, employee and vendor expense
reimbursements, and customer comps. The company also kept inaccurate books and records.

8. As aresult of this conduct, LVSC violated the internal controls and books and
records provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”).

Background

9. Macao was a Portuguese colony until December 20, 1999, when Portugal
transferred control of Macao to China. While casino gambling is not legal in China, it is legal in
Macao. In 2002, the Macao government granted gaming concessions to casino and hotel
developers.

10. LVSC conducted business in Macao through VML until November 2009, when it
issued an initial public offering (“IPO”) for SCL, a public company that is listed on the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange. Through SCL, LVSC owns and operates casinos, hotels, convention
facilities, retail space, and a 15,000-seat sports arena in Macao. Until March of 2009, LVSC’s
operations in Macao and China were overseen by its President and Chief Operating Officer
(“President”), who worked in close concert with LVSC’s President of Asian Development.

LVSC’s China Operations

11. In addition to operating in Macao, LVSC also sought to establish operations in
China. Certain LVSC executives, including its President, were particularly interested in
development opportunities on Henggin Island, which is part of Zhuhai in southern China and close
to Macao.

12. To facilitate business development activities in China, LVSC established VHQ,
VHM and BATA. As WFOEs, these entities are permitted to conduct only business in China that
fell within their prescribed business scope. LVSC used intercompany transfers to fund the WFOE
operations but failed to implement a system of internal financial controls over their operations.

13. While the WFOEs were governed according to general articles of association as
required by Chinese law, the articles of association do not specify accounting policies and
procedures and none were adopted by the WFOEs when established. In the absence of their own
policies and procedures, accounting staff at the WFOEs inconsistently applied certain of VML’s
accounting policies with regard to their operations.

14. As a gaming company, LVSC was subject to significant restrictions on its ability to
advertise its casinos or to own assets in China.

15. In 2006, the LVSC President of Asian Development (who was then Vice-President
of Asian Development) identified a Chinese consultant (“Consultant”) to assist the company with
3
its activities in China. The Consultant claimed to be a former Chinese government official and
touted his political connections with Chinese government officials as his principle qualification to
provide assistance to LVSC. With the approval of the LVSC President, the Consultant was hired
to liaise with governmental bodies, provide advice and assistance with approval processes and to
serve as an intermediary or “beard” to obscure LVSC’s role in certain transactions.

16. The Consultant established numerous business entities in China, which he
frequently used interchangeably for his interactions with LVSC. In 2007, after the Consultant had
been engaged and several payments had been made to him, the company conducted due diligence
on him and three of his business entities. The company did not, however, conduct due diligence on
at least seven other businesses associated with the Consultant and to which LVSC transferred
funds.

A. The Basketball Team

17. In early 2007, the LVSC President sought to purchase a professional basketball
team in China, with the purported purpose being to improve LVSC’s image in China and to bring
customers to the casinos because the team could play in the Venetian Macao’s sports arena. The
team would wear jerseys with an image of a gold lion, which was the symbol of the Venetian
Macao Casino. As the team could not put the name of a gaming company on the jerseys, the team
was named “Wei Li Xin,” which translates to “good fortune” and sounds like “Venetian” when
pronounced in Chinese. No research or marketing analysis was ever done in connection with the
basketball team.

18. The Chinese Basketball Association (“CBA”), which falls under the PRC State
General Administration of Sports (which in turn is organized directly under the State Council of
the PRC), would not permit a gaming company to own a league team, and thus neither LVSC nor
its relevant subsidiaries could purchase a team. Instead, the Consultant was used as a “beard” to
buy the team, and the company entered into what was ostensibly a sponsorship agreement for the
team.

19. The Consultant established an entity called Shenzhen Wei Li Xin to purchase and
own the team. In March 2007, an LVSC subsidiary entered into a promissory note agreement with
a separate entity associated with the Consultant. Subsequently, approximately $6,072,400 was
transferred from the VHQ WFOE to Shenzhen Wei Li Xin, though neither entity was a party to the
promissory note agreement.

20. In September 2007, an LVSC Senior Director of Finance (who also served as a
VML Director of Finance) raised concerns about the basketball transaction to the CFO of LVSC.
Of particular concern was the repeated transfer of funds to the Consultant without any supporting
documentation for the team’s need for or use of the funds. The LVSC Senior Director of Finance
had also learned from a former employee of the Consultant that the Consultant had used LVSC
funds to make a payment to a senior CBA official in connection with the Wei Li Xin team.

21. While the CFO instructed the Senior Director of Finance to conduct financial due
diligence on the team, including a review of the team’s books and its players’ contracts, the

4
Consultant would not permit an on-site review. Instead, the Consultant had another of his
employees pretend that he worked for the team and present a handwritten list of the team’s
expenses, which the LVSC Senior Director of Finance found to be facially unreliable. Within
months, the President of LVSC arranged to have the LVSC Senior Director of Finance placed on
administrative leave and eventually terminated. Meanwhile, the LVSC President approved the
ongoing payments to the Consultant, which were made through the VHQ and VHM WFOEs.

22. Referencing his concerns about the fact that the promissory agreement was with an
entity that was different than the entity that received LVSC funds, the inability of LVSC to track
the funds that it had transferred to the Consultant, and the lack of recourse should the Consultant
fail to purchase the team, the CFO wrote in October 2007, “My ... concern is how to deal with this
from a Sarbanes-Oxley perspective. The manner in which this has transpired is not indicative of a
sound control environment. This will be exacerbated by any write-off we would have to take as
that will call into question our ability to safeguard assets.”

23. Due to lack of accountability of funds provided to the Consultant, in late 2007 the
company engaged an international accounting firm (“the firm”) to review the basketball
transaction. When the firm was instructed to cease its investigation in February 2008, it had
already identified over $700,000 in unaccounted for funds that had been transferred to the
Consultant. Nonetheless, more than $5 million in additional payments were subsequently made to
the Consultant ostensibly in connection with the basketball team.

24. Within this lax control environment, payments to the Consultant were also falsely
recorded in the company’s books and records. For example, in September 2008, approximately
$1.5 million was transferred to one of the Consultant’s entities upon the request of an employee
who initially stated that the payment was for “bank charges and loan.” The employee subsequently
said that the Consultant was actually using the funds to set up a network of state-owned enterprise
(“SOE”) travel agencies that would promote the Venetian Macao. No invoice or supporting
documentation was received in connection with this payment, and it was booked as a consultancy
fee.

25. In total, between March 2007 and January 2009, pursuant to a series of sponsorship
and advertising contracts, approximately $14.8 million was paid to the Consultant in connection
with the basketball team. Over one-third of these funds were paid after the firm had identified
significant unaccounted for funds, and approximately $6.9 million was transferred without
appropriate authorization or supporting documentation.

B. The Adelson Center

26. Beginning in 2006, the LVSC President looked to develop a non-gaming resort on
Hengain Island, a new resort district in China. Any such development would need the approval of
various governmental entities, and the President believed that partnering with a Chinese company
would improve LVSC’s chances of receiving the needed approvals.

27. As part of pursuing this strategy, only one Chinese company was considered as a
partner — an SOE whose Chairman was believed to have particular influence in connection with

5
Hengqin, and who was introduced to the company by the same Consultant used for the basketball
team.

28. The partnership was initially designed as a joint venture between the SOE and
LVSC. In December 2006, LVSC signed a letter of intent with the SOE to establish a joint venture
and to buy portions of a building in Beijing (“real estate” or “property”) from the SOE for
approximately $42 million. As part of the joint venture, SOE agreed to help LVSC develop
Hengqin. However, the SOE Chairman and/or Consultant stated that a “beard” would be needed
as the SOE board would not approve a direct relationship with a gaming company. LVSC initially
tried to arrange for a U.S.-based entity to invest on its behalf as a “beard,” but the joint-venture
deal eventually collapsed.

29. Instead of a joint venture, the LVSC President authorized using the Consultant as a
“beard” to purchase the Beijing building from the SOE. The real estate itself consisted of
conference rooms, office space, 55 apartments, and a two-level basement, all of which were largely
unfinished. An initial independent appraisal valued the property more than 10% below the agreed-
upon purchase price, but a second appraisal was obtained suggesting the value was slightly above
the purchase price.

30. Little or no thought appears to have been given by LVSC to a purchase of the
building in advance, but ultimately the LVSC President determined that the property would be
named after the company’s founder and CEO, and that it would be developed as a business center
to help U.S. companies seeking to do business in China. He also planned to set up a high-end
“men’s club” in the basement. The “Adelson Center” was scheduled to open in August 2008,
during the Beijing Olympics, and in February 2008 the LVSC CEO sent a letter to the President of
the United States, inviting him to attend the ribbon-cutting ceremony.

31. No research or analysis was done to determine whether a need existed for such a
business center, the amount of any profit or loss it was likely to generate, or whether it would do
anything to improve LVSC’s image in China. Numerous employees were concerned that the
purchase of the real estate was solely for political purposes. Nevertheless, between July 2007 and
February 2008, approximately $43 million was transferred to one of the Consultant’s entities for
the purchase of the real estate. None of the payments was approved by an LVSC employee with
sufficient authorization to approve the amounts paid. In addition, LVSC spent approximately $14
million on renovation and miscellaneous expenses. Of these payments, approximately $13.7
million lacked appropriate authorization.

32. In August 2007, LVSC employees learned that, contrary to their understanding, the
basement of the building was not part of the real estate purchased by the Consultant, as the SOE
had never obtained a title for the basement. The Consultant informed them that it would be very
difficult and costly to obtain a title for the basement, but that he could obtain one if he was given
approximately $1.4 million. The Consultant proposed leasing the basement to the company if it
would prepay the rent for a period of years.

33. While significant concerns were raised that the Consultant intended to obtain the
basement title by making improper payments to government officials, the company proceeded to

6
lease the basement from the Consultant. No documentation was obtained demonstrating that the
Consultant had obtained the title legally or that his entity had actually purchased the basement
from the SOE. On April 9, 2008, approximately $3.6 million was wired to an entity affiliated with
the Consultant as a prepayment for a five-year lease of the basement. The CFO of LVSC approved
the payment, even though it exceeded his approval limit.

34. For all relevant periods, the Beijing building was managed by a property manager
affiliated with the SOE. Nonetheless, between November 2008 and July 2009, approximately
$900,000 in purported property management fees were paid to an entity controlled by the
Consultant. No property management services were provided by the Consultant’s entity, but the
payments were recorded in the company’s books and records as property management fees.

35. In April 2008, approximately $1.4 million was paid to an entity associated with the
Consultant, which was recorded in the company’s books and records as “arts and crafts.” In
February 2009, an LVSC accountant raised questions about the payment, because the entity had
not obtained any artwork for the Adelson Center. The accountant was told by the LVSC President
of Asian Development that the payment actually related to Hengqin Island. No adjustment was
made to how the payment was recorded.

36. In July 2008, pursuant to a series of contracts, the Consultant transferred control to
LVSC of the shares of his entity that owned the real estate. In September 2008, the LVSC
President of Asian Development signed contracts that cancelled the transfer of shares from the
Consultant’s entity and agreed to receive in exchange from the Consultant a promissory note for
approximately $43 million. This transaction far exceeded his authority. At or around the same
time, a decision was made to shutter the Adelson Center project. In total, the company transferred
approximately $61 million in connection with the real estate transaction and ultimately received
approximately $44 million in settlement from the Consultant.

LVSC’s Macao Operations

37. In 2007, LVSC set up a high-speed ferry business to transport customers from
China and Hong Kong to Macao. LVSC sought to contract with a ferry services provider to
operate the ferries. Under pressure from the LVSC President, LVSC employees selected a
recently-formed ferry company (“New Ferry”) that was partially-owned by an older, Chinese state-
owned ferry company (“Old Ferry”). The LVSC President stated in an email to an LVSC
executive that the selection of New Ferry would be politically advantageous to LVSC.

38. The shareholders of New Ferry included Old Ferry and a shipping company
(“Shipping”) that was indirectly owned by the Consultant and the SOE Chairman. Given the
contract values, due diligence was required on the respective entities and principals under LVSC’s
policies. While it was known that Old Ferry and Shipping owned New Ferry, due diligence was
only done on Old Ferry, and in July 2007, two Hong Kong subsidiaries of LVSC signed a contract
with New Ferry as Operator and Guarantor, respectively.

39. As part of its contract, each year New Ferry submitted a detailed budget which
included a “Business Entertainment” line item that was divided into separate amounts for

7
business partners and for government officials. In 2010, SCL’s internal audit department, Audit
Services Group (“ASG”), concluded that New Ferry was spending the majority of the
entertainment expense on government officials. In addition to providing meals to government
officials, New Ferry gave them “red envelopes” containing cash around the Chinese New Year.
New Ferry personnel told an SCL auditor that it was necessary to provide meals and
entertainment to government officials to secure routes for the ferries. ASG failed to elevate this
issue within the company.

AO. LVSC had policies and procedures in place at VML regarding purchasing, but they
were not enforced. Employees were able to use cash advances and expense rermbursements to
circumvent those policies and procedures. For example, in September 2006, the LVSC President
of Asian Development used a cash advance of approximately $28,000 from VML to pay for a
topographic map of Hengqin. In another instance, in October 2006, he arranged a forum at the
Great Hall of the People in Beijing. Afterward, he submitted a personal expense report for which
he was reimbursed approximately $86,000.

Al. In 2008, VML’s professional service engagement controls did not require pre-
hiring due diligence. Furthermore, LVSC did not require engagement letters with specific controls
on professional service providers. For example, LVSC had no controls in place to ensure that legal
engagements were consistent with the FCPA.

42. Beginning in March 2009, LVSC’s policy regarding payments to outside counsel
explicitly required the submission of original backup documentation when seeking ret1mbursement
for expenses in excess of $100. This policy was not uniformly enforced. For example, in
September 2009, an outside counsel (“Attorney”) submitted a bill to VML for “Expenses in
Beijing,” in the amount of approximately $25,000, but he provided no documentation to support
the expenses and was nonetheless paid. Later, Attorney stated that he actually requested the funds
on behalf of a friend who was an unpaid consultant to LVSC. This payment was recorded in the
books and records as a reimbursement of legal expenses, despite the lack of documentation.

43. In its Macao casinos and hotels, LVSC provides complimentary items and services
(“comps”) such as restaurant meals and hotel stays to actual and potential gaming customers and
business contacts. LVSC employees are allowed to give comps up to a certain amount, depending
on their position in the company. Non-gaming comps required the approval of an LVSC vice
president, and LVSC used players’ names to determine whether comps were provided to players
who actually earned them due to the amount they played.

44. During the relevant period, VML employees often failed to record the comp
recipients’ names, which resulted in an inability to track or audit comps. In particular, this
precluded the identification of comp recipients who were government officials or Politically
Exposed Persons (“PEPs”).
Legal Standards and FCPA Violations

45. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any
provision of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person
that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or
should have known would contribute to such violation.

46. Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, issuers are required to make and
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A).

47. Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, issuers are required to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that
(1) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
(11) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (111) access to assets is permitted only in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded
accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and
appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B).

48. As aresult of the conduct described above, LVSC violated Section 13(b)(2)(A)
because its books and records did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
purpose of the payments. LVSC violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) because it did not devise and
maintain a reasonable system of internal accounting controls over operations in Macao and
China to ensure that access to assets was permitted and that transactions were executed in
accordance with management’s authorization; in addition, that transactions were recorded as
necessary to maintain accountability for assets, particularly with regard to the accounts payable
process, the purchasing process, due diligence, and controls surrounding contracts.

LVSC’s Cooperation and Remedial Efforts

In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff (“the Staff”).

49. In connection with the investigation by the Staff, the LVSC Audit Committee
retained outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation. The LVSC Audit Committee
provided significant cooperation with the Commission’s investigation by sharing in real-time the
facts discovered during the course of its internal investigation and provided information that may
not have been otherwise available to the Staff; facilitating the interviews of certain key foreign
witnesses; voluntarily producing translations of key documents; and producing large volumes of
business, financial, and accounting documents in response to requests.

50. LVSC undertook various remedial measures, including hiring a new general
counsel and new heads of the internal audit and compliance functions. In addition, the company

9
established a new Board of Directors Compliance Committee and increased the compliance and
accounting budgets. LVSC updated the Code of Business Conduct, the Anti-Corruption Policy,
the guidelines regarding comps for government officials, and the SOE and expense policy. The
company also developed and implemented enhanced anti-corruption training and an electronic
procurement and contract management system. Furthermore, LVSC enhanced its screening of
both third parties and new hires and its contracting process.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent LVSC’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent LVSC cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.

B. Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $9,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment must be
made in one of the following ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
LVSC as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles E. Cain, Deputy Chief of FCPA
Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St. NE, Washington,
DC 20549.

10
C. Respondent shall comply with the following undertakings:

1.

Retain an independent consultant (the “Independent Consultant’) not
unacceptable to the Staff within sixty (60) days after the issuance of this
Order. Within thirty (30) calendar days after the issuance of this Order,
Respondent shall recommend to the Staff three qualified candidates to serve
as the Independent Consultant.

The Independent Consultant candidates shall have, ata minimum, the
following qualifications: demonstrated expertise with respect to the FCPA,
including experience counseling on FCPA issues; experience designing
and/or reviewing corporate compliance policies, procedures, and internal
controls, including FCPA-specific policies, procedures and internal controls;
ability to access and deploy resources as necessary to discharge the
Independent Consultant’s duties as described herein; and independence from
Respondent to ensure effective and impartial performance of the Independent
Consultant’s duties.

The Independent Consultant should not have provided legal, auditing, or other
services to, or have had any affiliation with, the Respondent during the prior
two years.

Respondent shall retain the Independent Consultant for a period of two (2)
years from the date of engagement. Respondent shall exclusively bear all
costs, including compensation and expenses, associated with the retention of
the Independent Consultant.

To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, Respondent shall
not have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant without the
prior written approval of the Staff.

The Independent Consultant’s responsibility is to review and evaluate
Respondent’s internal controls, record-keeping and financial reporting policies
and procedures (“Policies and Procedures’) as they relate to its compliance
with the books and records, internal accounting controls, and anti-bribery
provisions of the FCPA (“the FCPA Policies”) and to make recommendations.
This review and evaluation shall include an assessment of the policies and
procedures as actually implemented and how FCPA compliance fits within
Respondent’s ethics and compliance function. The Independent Consultant
shall consider whether the ethics and compliance function has sufficient
resources, authority, and independence, and provides sufficient training and
guidance.

Respondent and the Independent Consultant shall agree that the Independent
Consultant is an independent third-party and not an employee or agent of

11
10.

the Respondent. In addition, Respondent and the Independent Consultant
agree that no attorney-client relationship shall be formed between them.

Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to enter into an
agreement with Respondent providing that, for the period of engagement and
for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, the Independent
Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client,
auditing or other professional relationship with Respondent, or any of its
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in
their capacity as such. Any firm with which the Independent Consultant is
affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the
Independent Consultant in performance of his/her duties under this Order shall
not, without prior written consent of the Staff, enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with
Respondent, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the
engagement and for a period of two (2) years after the engagement.

Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to prepare a written
work plan and submit it to Respondent and the Staff for comment within
thirty (30) days of commencing the engagement. The Respondent’s
comments shall be provided to the Independent Consultant no more than
fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the written work plan. In order
to conduct an effective initial review and to understand fully any existing
deficiencies in policies, procedures, and internal controls related to the
FCPA, including how FCPA compliance fits within Respondent’s ethics and
compliance function, the Independent Consultant’s initial work plan shall
include such steps as are reasonably necessary to develop an
understanding of the facts and circumstances surrounding any violations
that may have occurred and to assess the effectiveness of Respondent’s
existing policies, procedures, and internal controls that were designed to
detect, deter, and prevent violations of the FCPA and of Respondent’s
ethics and compliance program. Any dispute between Respondent and
the Independent Consultant with respect to the work plan shall be decided
by the Staff.

Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant, and the
Independent Consultant shall have the authority to take such reasonable steps
as, In his or her view, may be necessary to be fully informed about
Respondent’s Policies and Procedures in accordance with the principles set
forth herein and applicable law, including data protection, blocking statutes,
and labor laws and regulations applicable to Respondent. To that end
Respondent shall provide the Independent Consultant with access to all
information, documents, records, facilities and/or employees, as requested by
the Independent Consultant, that fall within the scope of the Independent

12
11.

12.

13.

Consultant’s responsibility, except as provided in this paragraph; and provide
guidance on applicable laws (such as relevant data protection, blocking
statutes, and labor laws).

In the event that Respondent seeks to withhold from the Independent
Consultant access to information, documents, records, facilities and/or
employees of Respondent that may be subject to a claim of attorney-client
privilege or to the attorney work product doctrine, or where Respondent
reasonably believes production would otherwise be inconsistent with
applicable law, Respondent shall work cooperatively with the Independent
Consultant to resolve the matter to the satisfaction of the Independent
Consultant. If the matter cannot be resolved, at the request of the Independent
Consultant, Respondent shall promptly provide written notice to the
Independent Consultant and the Staff. Such notice shall include a general
description of the nature of the information, documents, records, facilities
and/or employees that are being withheld, as well as the basis for the claim.
To the extent Respondent has provided information to the Staff in the course
of the investigation leading to this action pursuant to a non-waiver of privilege
agreement, Respondent and the Independent Consultant may agree to
production of such information to the Independent Consultant pursuant to a
similar non-waiver agreement.

Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to issue a written report
(“Report”), within six (6) months after being retained to review Respondent’s
Policies and Procedures: (a) summarizing its review and evaluation, and (b) if
necessary, making recommendations based on its review and evaluation that
are reasonably designed to improve Respondent’s Policies and Procedures.
Respondent shall require that the Independent Consultant provide the Report
to the Board of Directors of Respondent and simultaneously transmit a copy to
the Staff at the following address: Charles E. Cain, Deputy Chief of FCPA
Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F
Street NE, Washington, DC 20549.

Respondent shall adopt all recommendations in the Report within sixty (60)
days of the issuance of the Report; provided, however, that, as to any
recommendations that Respondent considers to be unduly burdensome,
impractical, or costly, Respondent need not adopt the recommendations at that
time, but may submit in writing to the Staff, within thirty (30) days of
receiving the Report, an alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve
the same objective or purpose. Respondent and the Independent Consultant
shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement relating to each
recommendation Respondent considers unduly burdensome, impractical, or
costly. In the event that Respondent and the Independent Consultant are
unable to agree on an alternative proposal within thirty (30) days, Respondent
will abide by the determinations of the Staff.

13
14. Within six (6) months of the issuance of the Report, Respondent shall
implement all of Consultant’s recommendations or agreed-upon alternatives.

15. Thirty (30) days after the Respondent completes the implementation,
Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to perform a follow-up
review to confirm that Respondent has implemented the recommendations or
agreed-upon alternatives and continued the application of the Policies and
Procedures, and to deliver a supplemental report within thirty (30) days to the
Board of Directors of Respondent and the Staff setting forth its conclusions
and whether any further improvements should be implemented.

16. Respondent agrees that the Staff may extend any of the dates set forth above
at its discretion.

17. Respondent shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set
forth above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by
exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Staff may make
reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent
agrees to provide such evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification
and supporting material to Charles E. Cain, Deputy Chief of FCPA Unit,
Division of Enforcement, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the
Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the
completion of the undertakings.

18. Respondent agrees that these undertakings shall be binding upon any acquirer
or successor in interest to Respondent or substantially all of Respondent’s
assets and liabilities or business.

D. Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in
excess of $9,000,000 based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and related
enforcement action. If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement
(“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially false
or misleading information or materials to the Commission or in a related proceeding, the Division
may, at its sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to
reopen this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an additional civil penalty.
Respondent may contest by way of defense in any resulting administrative proceeding whether it

14
knowingly provided materially false or misleading information, but may not: (1) contest the
findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to,
any statute of limitations defense.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

15
