#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, February 26, 2019

Two Businessmen Charged with Foreign Bribery in Connection with Venezuela Bribery Scheme

A former sales representative and the president of a U.S.-based company were charged in an indictment unsealed today on foreign bribery, wire
fraud and money laundering charges for their alleged roles in a scheme to corruptly secure business advantages, including contracts and
payment on past due invoices, from Venezuela’s state-owned and state-controlled energy company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA).

Assistant Attorney General Brian A. Benczkowski of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Ryan K. Patrick of the Southern
District of Texas and Special Agent in Charge Mark Dawson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations
(HSI) Houston Field Office made the announcement.

Rafael Enrique Pinto Franceschi (Pinto), 40, of Miami, Florida, and Franz Herman Muller Huber (Muller), 68, of Weston, Florida, were charged ina
five-count indictment returned in the Southern District of Texas on Feb. 21, and unsealed today. Pinto and Muller made their initial
appearances today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jonathan Goodman of the Southern District of Florida. Pinto and Muller are each charged with
one count of conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, two counts of wire
fraud, and one count of conspiracy to launder money.

The indictment alleges that beginning in or around 2009 and continuing through at least 2013, Pinto, a sales representative for a Miami-based
PDVSA supplier (“Company A” in the indictment), and Muller, the President of Company A, conspired with others to bribe three PDVSA officials
in exchange for providing assistance in connection with Company A’s PDVSA business. According to the indictment, in exchange for bribe
payments the PDVSA officials allegedly assisted Company A in obtaining additional PDVSA contracts, inside information and payment on past
due invoices. The indictment alleges that when Company A received a payment from PDVSA, Pinto would alert one of the PDVSA officials who
would, in turn, create a fictitious invoice from a Panamanian shell company charging Company A three percent of whatever payment Company
A had received from PDVSA and directing Company A to send payment to a Swiss bank account. According to the charges, the false invoice
would be sent to Muller, who would ensure that the invoices were paid.

The wire fraud charges against Pinto and Muller are based on allegations that, in addition to directing Company A money to the three PDVSA
officials to benefit Company A, Pinto and Muller received kickbacks in connection with the scheme. In total, Pinto is alleged to have received
over $985,000 in kickback payments, and Muller over $258,000.

Two of the three officials that Pinto and Muller are accused of bribing - Jose Camacho and Ivan Guedez, both of Houston - have already pleaded
guilty in connection with the case and are pending sentencing.

An indictment is merely an allegation and the defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of
law.

With the unsealing of the indictment today, the Justice Department has announced charges against 21 individuals, 15 of whom have pleaded
guilty, as part of a larger, ongoing investigation by the U.S. government into bribery at PDVSA. HSI Houston is conducting the ongoing
investigation with assistance from HSI Boston and Miami. Trial Attorneys Sarah E. Edwards and Sonali D. Patel of the Criminal Division’s Fraud
Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys John P. Pearson and Robert S. Johnson of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case. Assistant
U.S. Attorney Kristine Rollison of the Southern District of Texas is handling the forfeiture aspects of the case.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs, the Swiss Federal Office of Justice, and the Cayman Mutual Legal Assistance Authority and
Cayman Office of the Director of Public Prosecution also provided assistance.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Department’s FCPA

enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption
Component(s):
Criminal Division
riminal - Criminal Er tion

USAO - Texas, Southern

Press Release Number:
19-167

Updated February 26, 2019
