UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 73437 / October 27, 2014

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16216

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-

In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
LAYNE CHRISTENSEN EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
COMPANY, FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-

AND-DESIST ORDER
Respondent.

 

 

I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act’), against Layne Christensen Company (“Layne
Christensen” or “Respondent’).

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
IIl.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds' that:
SUMMARY

1. These proceedings arise out of violations of the anti-bribery, recordkeeping,
and internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA’”) by Layne
Christensen. Between 2005 and 2010, Layne Christensen, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries in
Africa and Australia, made a total of more than $1,000,000 in improper payments to foreign
government officials in the Republic of Mali, the Republic of Guinea, Burkina Faso, the United
Republic of Tanzania, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. With the knowledge and
approval of one of its officers, Layne Christensen made these improper payments in order to obtain
favorable tax treatment, customs clearance for drilling equipment, work permits for expatriates, and
relief from inspection by immigration and labor officials, as well as, to avoid penalties for the
delinquent payment of taxes and customs duties and the failure to register immigrant workers.
Layne Christensen funded some of these payments through cash transfers from its U.S. bank
accounts to its Australian and African subsidiaries.

2. Layne Christensen falsely recorded these improper payments as legitimate
expenses and failed to maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide
reasonable assurances over its operations.

3. As a result of making improper payments to foreign officials in Africa,
Layne Christensen (1) realized improper tax benefits; (2) secured customs clearance of a drilling ng
and other equipment; (3) avoided assessed customs duties and associated penalties; and (4) secured
work permits for its employees and avoided the possible deportation of its undocumented workers
and penalties for the failure to register these workers. Overall, Layne Christensen realized benefits
of approximately $3.9 million by making improper payments to foreign officials in Africa between
2005 and 2010.

RESPONDENT

4. Layne Christensen is a Delaware corporation headquartered in The
Woodlands, TX. Layne Christensen is a global water management, construction, and drilling
company with more than 100 offices in Africa, Australia, Europe, South America, and North
America. Layne Christensen’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and its securities are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select
market under the ticker symbol LAYN.

 

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2
OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

5. Layne Christensen Australia Pty Limited. (“Layne Australia’) is an
Australian shell corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Layne Christensen based in Perth,
Australia. Through Layne Australia, Layne Christensen holds a 100% interest in holding
company Stanley Mining Services (“SMS”). SMS, in turn, owns all of the equity interests of the
following wholly-owned subsidiaries: International Mining Services Pty Limited, West African
Drilling Services Sarl in Mauritania and Guinea (“WADS”), and Layne Drilling in Mali,
Tanzania, and Burkina Faso (“Layne Drilling’). Layne Australia provides management and
financial accounting services to Layne Christensen’s companies operating in these African
countries. Layne Christensen exercised direct operational control over these wholly-owned
subsidiaries and consolidated their results in its financial statements.

 

6. Layne Drilling (DRC) SPRL (“Layne Drilling DRC’) is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Layne Christensen held through a Delaware corporation and operates in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.

 

FACTS
Knowledge of Improper Payments

7. The Mineral Exploration Division (“MinEx”) is Layne Christensen’s
second-largest business division and is primarily responsible for the Company’s mineral
exploration drilling operations worldwide. Between 2005 and 2010, the president of MinEx (the
“MinEx President”) was a corporate officer of Layne Christensen and reported directly to Layne
Christensen’s Chief Executive Officer. Based in Salt Lake City, UT, the MinEx President
supervised all of Layne Christensen’s mineral exploration drilling operations, including
operations in Australia and Africa.

8. The MinEx President had knowledge of and, in some instances, authorized
the direct and indirect payment of bribes to foreign officials in Africa to obtain or retain
business. Specifically, he was aware of payments made to third-party agents retained by Layne
Christensen’s African subsidiaries in order to obtain favorable tax treatment and to customs
officials to obtain clearance for equipment and reduced customs duties.

Payments to Achieve Favorable Tax Treatment

9. Between 2005 and 2009, Layne Christensen paid approximately $768,000
in bribes to foreign officials in Mali, Guinea, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, through
its wholly-owned subsidiaries WADS and Layne Drilling, in order to reduce its tax liability and
to avoid associated penalties for delinquent payment. By making these improper payments,
Layne Christensen realized more than $3.2 million in improper tax savings.
REPUBLIC OF MALI

10. In connection with a 2005 tax audit, the WADS subsidiary made two
improper payments totaling $93,000 to Malian tax officials through its local agent. The purpose
of these payments was to reduce its liability for unpaid taxes and associated penalties.

11. The payments were made on September 5, 2005 and October 19, 2005.
WADS falsely recorded the payments, respectively, as an “Advance of Audit” in its prepaid
taxes account and as the “take up cost” of the agent’s freight invoice (no freight services were
provided).

12. The MinEx President was aware that WADS had engaged the agent in
order to reduce its tax liability, and that as a result WADS had reduced its tax liability to less
than half the original assessment. The MinEx President did not question how these tax savings
were achieved.

13. In order to fund the payments, the chief financial officer of MinEx (the
“MinEx CFO”) directed another Layne Christensen subsidiary to transfer funds to WADS and
WADS’s financial controller to execute a cash call to Layne Christensen’s corporate office.
Layne Christensen wired funds from one of its U.S. banks accounts to WADS on the same day.

14. In 2007, WADS again made two improper payments to Malian tax
officials through the same agent that it used in 2005. As a result of the payments, Layne avoided
taxes and penalties of more than $1.2 million.

15. The check requisition used to make a payment to the agent listed the
purpose of this payment as “Fret fees for container” and it was accompanied by an invoice from
an unrelated company. The payment of $168,000 was falsely recorded as freight fees in Layne’s
books and records.

16. Following this payment, WADS received an official notice reflecting a
substantial reduction in its tax assessment and indicating that WADS was entitled to a credit of
approximately $280,000 that could be used to offset its tax liability. Internal emails show that
the Malian tax inspectors had requested a payment of about $67,000 to ensure that WADS would
receive this tax credit. WADS’s financial controller wrote, “We have already paid the equivalent
of $US$168K to [tax agent]. I was under the impression that this took care of all of ‘their’
payments.” Nevertheless, one day later, WADS issued another check to the tax agent in the
amount of approximately $68,000. The accompanying check requisition identified the payment
as related to “Fiscal Audit 2005/2006” and WADS falsely recorded it as “Property Rates and
Taxes” in its books and records.

17. The MinEx CFO provided the MinEx President with a memo summarizing
the history of the tax assessments and the subsequent reductions. As in 2005, the MinEx
President did not question how the tax savings were achieved.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

18. In 2006, WADS reduced its tax liability by paying bribes through two
lawyers retained at the suggestion of the tax authorities but who provided no services.

19. WADS received an official tax assessment for the tax years 2002-2004 on
February 15, 2006. However, prior to this date, WADS’s Finance Manager and tax consultants
from a local affiliate of a large multinational accounting firm (“International Tax Consultants’)
had been negotiating the amount of the assessment with Guinean tax officials. The WADS
Finance Manager told the MinEx CFO that the official assessment was substantially lower than
the amount that the Guinean tax authority had initially proposed but acceptance of this lower
amount was conditioned on WADS making the payment within two days of the assessment.
Without providing any supporting documentation, the MinEx CFO sent an email to Layne
Christensen’s corporate office seeking an urgent transfer of funds. Despite the lack of
documentation or a justification for the transfer, Layne Christensen wired more than $200,000
from a U.S. bank account to WADS’s local bank account on the same day.

20. On February 17, 2006, WADS made a single payment of approximately
$97,648 to the tax authority and payments of $24,000 and $101,000 to the two lawyers,
respectively. In comparison, WADS paid the International Tax Consultants only $8,400 for their
Services.

21. WADS falsely recorded the payments made to the lawyers as legal
expense although internal communications show that the lawyers provided no services. In a
March 14, 2006 memorandum to the MinEx CFO, the MinEx Tax Manager acknowledged that
“The [C]ompany has never engaged any lawyers or other accountants in Guinea and [is] never
likely to.” However, he reasoned that although the payments to the lawyers could not be
considered legal expense because although the lawyers did not perform any work and were
“merely a conduit for the money,” WADS could record them as tax expense because WADS
would have faced a larger tax assessment if it had not made these payments.

22. In 2008, WADS obtained over a 90% reduction in its assessed taxes and
penalties by funneling an improper payment of $273,000 to Guinean tax officials through the
same lawyers that it used in connection with the 2006 audit.

23. On June 26 and 27, 2008, the lawyers submitted invoices to WADS
totaling approximately $273,000 purportedly for rendering assistance with the tax audit. Neither
lawyer participated in negotiating the setthement of the tax audit. WADS paid the lawyers’
invoices on July 22, 2008.

24. Layne Christensen funded the payments to the lawyers through wire
transfers from a U.S. bank account. On July 2, 2008, the MinEx CFO sought a cash call from
Layne Christensen’s corporate office. The stated purpose of the request was to pay WADS’s
outstanding taxes but the amount requested exceeded the assessed tax amount. Without
supporting documentation or further justification, Layne Christensen wired the funds on July 2
and 21, 2008, and falsely recorded the payments as tax expense.

25. In an internal memorandum dated July 23, 2008 that was provided to
officers of Layne Christensen, the MinEx Tax Manager explained that on June 17, 2008,
following the issuance of the original tax assessment in May, the tax authorities suggested
WADS retain the same lawyers that it had used in 2006 to represent it in negotiating the tax
assessment. Shortly thereafter, without engagement letters or the approval of Layne
Christensen’s management, WADS retained both lawyers on a success-fee basis that tied their
compensation to the amount by which the assessment was reduced.

26. The MinEx Tax Manager also noted that a portion of the fees paid to the
lawyers could have been used to fund illegal payments to tax officials and that the lawyers and
the International Tax Consultants pressured WADS to make the payments to the lawyers in order
to obtain a settlement of the audit.

27. A few days later, the MinEx President learned that WADS had achieved a
substantial reduction in its tax assessment. On July 25, 2008, the Vice President of Operations
for Africa and Australia informed the MinEx President that the amount of the settled tax
assessment was materially different from the MinEx Division’s forecasted amount, could have a
material impact on Layne Christensen’s reported earnings, and could be scrutinized by Layne
Christensen’s auditors. The MinEx President also learned that WADS had retained the lawyers
without engagement letters. As with the Malian tax audits in 2005 and 2007, the MinEx
President did not question how the tax savings were achieved.

DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

28. In July 2009, Layne Drilling DRC made an improper payment of more
than $50,000 to tax officials in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”) through an agent
in order to reduce its liability for unpaid taxes and penalties.

29. After receiving a multi-million dollar tax assessment in June 2009, Layne
Drilling DRC’s local tax agent recommended that it engage a specialized lawyer to negotiate a
reduction in the assessment. On June 19, 2009, the MinEx CFO sought the approval of the
MinEx President to retain the lawyer as Layne Drilling DRC’s agent. Emphasizing that there
was “a lot at stake, potentially $millions,” the MinEx CFO explained that he had spoken to the
country manager and knew “more than can be written down.” However, he wrote that the
transaction would entail paying $30,000 in taxes and $50,000 in legal commissions in an
arrangement similar to the arrangement made with the lawyers in Guinea the previous year. The
MinEx CFO also stated that all payments to the tax authorities would be made through the
lawyer. Without questioning either the need to retain an agent or the suspicious proposed
arrangement, the MinEx President approved Layne Drilling DRC’s retention of the lawyer.

30. On July 9, 2009, Layne Drilling DRC paid the lawyer $57,200 and falsely
recorded the payment as legal expense.
31. The next day, the DRC tax authority issued a revised final tax assessment
to Layne Drilling DRC. The amount of the revised tax assessment was substantially lower than
the assessment issued to Layne Drilling DRC in June 2009.

Payments to Reduce Customs Duties and Obtain Customs Clearance

32. Layne Christensen made multiple improper payments to customs officials
in Burkina Faso and the DRC between 2007 and 2010 in order to avoid paying customs duties
and to obtain clearance for the import and export of its equipment in these countries. Layne
Christensen made these improper payments through its customs clearing agents and falsely
recorded the payments as legal fees and agent commissions in its books and records.

BURKINA FASO

33. Burkina Faso’s customs authority conducted an audit of WADS in June
2010. The auditors found that WADS had failed to comply with customs regulations relating to
the importation of certain goods and to pay sufficient customs duties on these items. As a result,
the customs authority assessed WADS nearly $2 million in unpaid duties and penalties.

34. Although WADS had retained a new customs clearing agent prior to
receiving this assessment, it engaged its former customs agent purportedly to negotiate a
reduction in the assessment. The former agent had cleared the disputed items but WADS
terminated it in or about May 2009 due, in part, to poor performance. Nevertheless, WADS
reengaged its former agent in June 2010 because the agent’s owner was well-connected with
customs authorities in Burkina Faso. In an email to the MinEx CFO, the WADS Finance
Manager described the agent as someone who is “well Known in the game.” In addition, he
informed the MinEx CFO that WADS retained the agent on a success fee basis and would pay
the agent 10% of the difference between the original assessment and the final assessment.

35. On August 1, 2009, the MinEx CFO also told the MinEx President and
another senior employee that WADS had retained a third-party agent to negotiate a settlement of
the customs audit and the assessed customs duties were reduced from nearly $2 million to less
than $300,000. The MinEx CFO recommended that WADS accept this settlement and he sought
the approval of the MinEx President to send $300,000 to pay the customs fees and penalties as
well as $100,000 for the agent’s commission. Without questioning the identity of the agent, the
nature of the services provided, or the size of the commission, the MinEx President approved the
payments.

36. The MinEx CFO initiated cash calls to fund the payments and Layne
transferred funds from a U.S. bank account to WADS on August 4 and August 28, 2010.
Between August 4 and 20, 2010, WADS paid the agent a total of approximately $138,000,
including one cash payment. WADS falsely recorded the payments to the agent as legitimate
consultant fees in its books and records.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
a. Importation of Drilling Rigs and Equipment

37. In 2007, Layne Drilling DRC made improper payments to customs
officials to obtain the initial importation of its drilling rigs and other equipment into the DRC.

38. In 2006 and 2007, Layne Drilling DRC encountered significant delays in
obtaining customs clearance for the importation of its equipment, which resulted in the WADS
Finance Manager terminating Layne Drilling DRC’s then-customs clearing agent and hiring a
new agent (“Customs Clearance Agent’) in March 2007. The new Customs Clearance Agent
was managed by the brother of a national government official in the DRC (“DRC Official’’). In
an email to the MinEx President, the WADS Finance Manager said that he had found someone
who is “more connected” and “can get things moving for us.” As an example, he noted that the
Customs Clearance Agent had obtained clearance for two trucks in only two days whereas the
former agent had been unable to clear three trucks through customs for more than five weeks.

39, Between March and September 2007, Layne Drilling DRC paid a total of
approximately $124,000 to the Customs Clearance Agent for irregular expenses, described as
things such as “per diem,” “intervention expenses,” and “honoraires,” that were not related to
specific invoices. Layne Drilling DRC paid the Customs Clearance Agent upon request and in
amounts dictated by the agent. In addition, on two occasions, Layne Drilling DRC made

payments to an unrelated third party in the U.S. at the direction of the Customs Clearance Agent.

AO. As a result of these payments, Layne Christensen was able to import
equipment necessary to perform on its existing contracts and derived more than $300,000 in
benefits in 2007.

41. Layne Drilling DRC inaccurately recorded these payments as legitimate
expenses relating to customs and clearance in its books and records.

b. Customs Clearance for Exports

42. Soon after beginning operations in the DRC in 2007, Layne Drilling DRC
hired the nephew of the DRC Official as an office manager. Internal documents describe the
DRC Official as Layne Drilling DRC’s “protector” and show that Layne Drilling DRC hired the
DRC Official’s nephew in order to facilitate a good relationship.

43. Between November 2007 and August 2008, the office manager approved
and made $18,000 in cash payments from Layne Drilling DRC’s account. These payments were
purportedly made based on invoices submitted by a local firm that had allegedly provided
customs clearance services but with whom Layne Drilling DRC had no written contract. Many
of the payments were made outside of Layne Drilling DRC’s vendor system. In addition, the
firm’s invoices were undated and included undefined “per diem” and “honoraire” expenses,
similar to the invoices submitted by the Customs Clearance Agent. Layne improperly recorded
these payments as legitimate customs and clearance expenses.

c. Exportation of Equipment

44. In 2009 and 2010, Layne Drilling DRC made payments through its agents
to customs officials in order to secure the exportation of goods and equipment from the DRC to
Zambia.

45. In June 2009, Layne Drilling DRC retained a customs clearing agent to
facilitate the export of a drilling rig to Zambia on an expedited basis. However, when the
customs clearing agent indicated that the exportation would be delayed due to the lack of
documentation relating to the original importation of the drilling rig Layne Drilling DRC
replaced the agent.

46. Between July 10 and July 17, 2009, Layne Drilling DRC paid $7,186 to
the second agent who, in turn, made payments to customs officials and on July 20, 2009, the
drilling rig was successfully exported to Zambia and placed it into operations. Layne Drilling
DRC inaccurately recorded payments made to the agent as “governor office release rig” and
“release documents for rig44.”

47. By making improper payments to customs officials to secure the export of
this drilling rig, Layne Drilling DRC realized benefits of approximately $145,000.

A8. Similarly, between April and November 2010, Layne Drilling DRC made
nearly $15,000 in improper payments, through its agent, to DRC officials in order to again obtain
clearance of goods for export to Zambia that lacked the proper import documentation. As
before, the agent provided invoices that included “honoraires” and “per diems” and the payments
were falsely recorded as legitimate customs and clearance expenses in Layne’s books and
records.

OTHER PAYMENTS

49. Between 2007 and 2010, Layne Christensen made more than $10,000 in
small payments to foreign officials through various customs and clearing agents that it used in
the Republic of Tanzania, Burkina Faso, the Republic of Mali, Mauritania, and the DRC. These
payments ranged from $4 to $1,700 and were characterized in invoices submitted by the agents
as, among other things, “intervention,” “honoraires,” “commissions,” and “service fees.”

50. Between 2006 and 2010, Layne Christensen made more than $23,000 in
cash payments, through its subsidiaries, to police, border patrol, immigration officials, and labor
inspectors in Burkina Faso, Guinea, Tanzania, and the DRC to obtain border entry for its
equipment and employees, to secure work permits for its expatriate employees, and to avoid
penalties for noncompliance with local immigration and labor regulations.
LEGAL STANDARDS

C. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder or any other person that is, was, or would
be a cause of the violation due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would
contribute to such violation.

Violations of the Recordkeeping and Internal Controls Provisions of the FCPA

 

D. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make and Keep books,
records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
disposition of the assets of the issuer. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A).

E. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i)
transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (11)
transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (11) access to assets is permitted only in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded
accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and
appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B).

F, As described above, Layne Christensen violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the
Exchange Act by falsely recording improper payments that its wholly-owned subsidiaries made to
foreign officials in Africa as legitimate expenses, including commissions, consulting fees, customs
and clearing expenses, border assistance, and freight fees. Layne Christensen also violated Section
13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain sufficient accounting controls to detect and prevent
the making of these improper payments to foreign officials.

Violations of the Anti-Bribery Provision of the FCPA

 

G. Section 30A of the Exchange Act makes it unlawful for any issuer, officer, director,
employee, or agent of such issuer or any stockholder thereof acting on behalf of the issuer, to make
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of
an offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, gift,
promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any foreign official or any
person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of value will be offered, given,
or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official for the purposes of (i) influencing any act
or decision of such foreign official in his official capacity, (41) inducing such foreign official to do
or omit to do any act in violation of the lawful duty of such official, or (1) securing any improper
advantage in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing
business to, any person. 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1.

10
H. Layne Christensen violated Section 30A of the Exchange Act by paying bribes,
through its wholly-owned subsidiaries and their agents, to foreign officials in multiple African
countries in order to obtain or retain business. From 2005 through 2010, with the knowledge and
approval of one of its corporate officers, Layne Christensen paid over $1 million in bribes to
foreign officials in order to, among other things, obtain favorable tax treatment, customs clearance
for its equipment, and a reduction in its customs duties. Layne Christensen funded many of these
improper payments by transferring money from its U.S. bank accounts to its wholly-owned
subsidiaries who, in turn, funneled cash to foreign officials through agents that the subsidiaries
retained.

REMEDIAL MEASURES AND COOPERATION

I. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.

J. Since 2010, Layne Christensen has implemented a number of remedial measures
designed to identify and mitigate bribery risks and to prevent FCPA violations in the future. Upon
learning of possible improper payments made to foreign officials by its staff in Africa, Layne
Christensen’s senior management and Audit Committee responded quickly by initiating an
investigation conducted by an outside law firm and forensic accounting experts, self-reporting its
preliminary findings to the Commission, and publicly disclosing its potential FCPA violations.
During the course of the investigation, Layne Christensen terminated four employees, including
the MinEx President, the MinEx CFO, and the WADS Finance Manager for their roles in the
misconduct, and reduced the compensation of the MinEx President for failing to establish a strong
compliance tone at the top. In addition, the Company conducted a comprehensive risk assessment
of its worldwide operations and implemented measures to address its most significant corruption
risks.

K. Layne Christensen also took affirmative steps to strengthen its internal compliance
policies, procedures, and controls. Layne Christensen issued a standalone anti-bribery policy and
procedures, improved its accounting policies relating to cash disbursements, implemented an
integrated accounting system worldwide, revamped its anti-corruption training, and conducted
extensive due diligence of third parties with which it does business. In addition, Layne
Christensen hired a dedicated chief compliance officer and three full-time compliance personnel
and retained a consulting firm to conduct an assessment of its anti-corruption program and make
recommendations.

L. Layne Christensen exhibited a high level of cooperation throughout the
Commission’s investigation. In addition to self-reporting to the Commission shortly after it
discovered potential FCPA violations, Layne Christensen voluntarily provided the Commission
with real-time reports of its investigative findings, produced English language translations of
documents, made foreign witnesses available for interviews in the United States, shared
summaries of witness interviews and reports prepared by forensic consultants retained in
connection with the Company’s internal investigation, and responded to the Commission’s
requests for documents and information in a timely manner. These actions assisted the

11
Commission in efficiently collecting valuable evidence, including information that may not have
been otherwise available to the staff. Based on these factors, the Commission considered Layne
Christensen’s significant cooperation in determining to accept the Respondent’s Offer.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent Layne Christensen’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A.

Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Layne Christensen cease
and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of
Sections 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 30A of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 8§
78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(2)(B), and 78dd-1].

Respondent shall, within fourteen (14) days of the entry of this Order, pay
disgorgement of $3,893,472.42 which represents profits gained and losses avoided
as a result of the conduct described herein, prejudgment interest of $858,720.68,
and a civil money penalty of $375,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule
of Practice 600. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:

(1)

(2)

(3)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm;or

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Layne Christensen as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings;
a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Kara N. Brockmeyer, Chief,
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-5646.

12
C.

Respondent undertakes to:

(1)

Report to the Commission periodically, at no less than nine-month
intervals during a two-year term, the status of its FCPA and _ anti-
corruption related remediation and implementation of compliance
measures. During this two-year period, should the Respondent discover
credible evidence, not already reported to the Commission, that
questionable or corrupt payments or questionable or corrupt transfers of
property or interests may have been offered, promised, paid, or authorized
by any Respondent entity or person, or any entity or person acting on
behalf of Respondent, or that related false books and records have been
maintained, Respondent shall promptly report such conduct to the
Commission staff. During this two-year period, Respondent shall (1)
conduct an initial review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and
prepare two follow-up reviews and reports, as described below:

a. Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff a written report
within one 180 calendar days of the entry of this Order setting
forth a complete description of its remediation efforts to date, its
proposals reasonably designed to improve the policies and
procedures of Respondent for ensuring compliance with the FCPA
and other applicable anti-corruption laws, and the parameters of
the subsequent reviews (“the “Initial Report’). The Initial Report
shall be transmitted to Charles E. Cain, Deputy Chief, FCPA Unit,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-5030. Respondent may
extend the time period for issuance of the Initial Report with prior
written approval of the Commission staff.

b. Respondent shall undertake two follow-up reviews, incorporating
comments provided by the Commission on the previous report, to
further monitor and assess whether the policies and procedures of
the Respondent are reasonably designed to detect and prevent
violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws
(the “Follow-up Report’).

C. The Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 270
days after the Initial Report. The second Follow-Up Report shall
be completed by no later than 270 days after the completion of the
first Follow-Up Report. Respondent may extend the time period
for issuance of the Follow-up Report with prior written approval of
the Commission staff.

d. The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Respondent will
likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive

13
business information. Public disclosure of the reports could
discourage cooperation, impede pending or potential government
investigations or undermine the objectives of the reporting
requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the
contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-
public, except (a) pursuant to court order, (b) as agreed by the
parties in writing, (c) to the extent that the Commission staff
determines in its sole discretion that disclosure would be in
furtherance of the Commission’s discharge of its duties, or (d) is
otherwise required by law.

(2) Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above.
The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by
exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may
make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and
Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and
supporting material shall be submitted to Charles E. Cain, Deputy Chief,
FCPA Unit, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the
Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the
completion of the undertakings.

D. Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in
excess of $375,000 based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and
related enforcement action. If at any time following the entry of the Order, the
Division of Enforcement (“Division”) obtains information indicating that
Respondent knowingly provided materially false or misleading information or
materials to the Commission or in a related proceeding, the Division may, at its
sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission
to reopen this matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an
additional civil penalty. Respondent may contest by way of defense in any
resulting administrative proceeding whether it knowingly provided materially
false or misleading information, but may not: (1) contest the findings in the Order;
or (2) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to any
statute of limitations defense.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

14
