2020-BCFP-0004 Document’ Filed 06/23/2020 Page 1 of 24

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP- 0004

 

In the Matter of:
CONSENT ORDER

HARBOUR PORTFOLIO ADVISORS,
LLC; NATIONAL ASSET ADVISORS,
LLC; and NATIONAL ASSET
MORTGAGE, LLC

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
servicing and consumer-reporting activities of Harbour Portfolio Advisors, LLC;
National Asset Advisors, LLC; and National Asset Mortgage, LLC (Respondents,
as defined below) and has identified the following law violations: (1) Respondents
have misrepresented to consumers how consumers can address disputed entries on
their consumer reports, in violation of 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536; and
(2) National Asset Mortgage, LLC has failed to establish and implement
reasonable written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of
the information relating to consumers that it furnishes to a consumer-reporting

agency, in violation of 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42(a). Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
ws Oy RPE PR ro LA pees 2 APR IRA IRA ee ff oom

AAA Der AAM A PS ee eek oF ribs A FSSA Roses 3 af 34
; Bae bw : yo % ~y a“

OL Re PSE ie bere EE Pe goad PaPPseskr yy pr i bdase Lae ot SP eb ee ret tes of GP 2k

Soe a ee BE oh : - P PPNGAS Gk cdl eo Po CANN 2 A Sr

Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. $$ 5563, 5565,
the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).
I.
Jurisdiction
1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563 and 5565 and § 621 of the Fair Credit Reporting
Act (FCRA), 15 U.S.C. § 1681s(b)(1)(H).
I.
Stipulation
2. Respondents have each executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance
of a Consent Order,” dated June 9, 2020 and June 10, 2020 (Stipulations),
which are incorporated by reference and are accepted by the Bureau. By
these Stipulations, Respondents have consented to the issuance of this
Consent Order by the Bureau under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. 8§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or denying any of the findings of
fact or conclusions of law, except that Respondents admit the facts
necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the

subject matter of this action.
HII.
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.

b. “Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or
her delegate.

c. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on substantially
the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent Order.

d. “Respondents” means collectively Harbour Portfolio Advisors, LLC
(Harbour); National Asset Advisors, LLC (NAA); and National Asset

Mortgage, LLC (NAM), and their successors and assigns.
IV.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:
Harbour is a Texas limited-liability company that formerly entered into
contracts for deed with consumers. Harbour has now ceased operations

and is in the process of dissolution. Under the terms of these contracts,
AAAS Per AAR A am -. Lo peer PAR PRR AMA PA ‘ gc ya
POO ALB AAA Mnciirrant 4 Mitel MR POR PIMA Mana of ot 34
vt ade PS Se beret Pe ea goat Salt aber ay : Bi gate 2 rs ey Stel. BM ee
ae WA A ha Ne od oat ! = POPPA Le a OS bo CAM Mh aA?

consumers are obligated to pay a fixed principal over a term of years with
an interest rate. These contracts therefore constitute “credit” under

§ 5481(7) of the CFPA. Harbour is therefore a “covered person” under

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5)(A), (6)(A), (7), (15)(A)G).

NAA was a South Carolina limited-liability company that dissolved in 2018.
NAM is a South Carolina limited-liability company.

NAA advertised available homes for sale and serviced and maintained the
subject properties on behalf of Harbour. NAM arranged for consumers to
enter into contracts for deed with Harbour. NAM served as the primary
conduit for consumer communications as well as the delivery of
information to consumer-reporting agencies. During the last several years of
Harbour’s operations, NAM was responsible for fielding consumer
inquiries and disputes and for the reporting of information to consumer-
reporting agencies regarding consumer inquiries and disputes.

NAA and NAM therefore serviced the contracts provided by Harbour and
are thus “covered persons” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5)(A),
(6)(A), (7), 15 )(A)(@).

By furnishing information about the contracts to a consumer-reporting

agency, NAM is a “furnisher” under Regulation V. 12 C.F.R. § 1022.41.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

Findings and Conclusions as to Deceptive Acts or Practices
Regarding Credit Reporting

Beginning in 2010 until at least 2016, Harbour’s business plan was to
acquire foreclosed properties in bulk, at auction, from entities such as Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, and resell them to private individuals through cash
sales, bank financing, and primarily through seller financing in the form of
contracts for deed. NAA and NAM acted as Harbour’s agents during the
sales, origination, and servicing process.

NAM furnished information about consumers’ payment histories to a
consumer-reporting agency.

Between at least 2012 and 2016, when consumers called NAA or NAM to
complain about errors on their consumer reports relating to their transactions
with Harbour, they told some consumers that the only way for a consumer to
get help was to file a dispute with the consumer-reporting agency.

When a furnisher represents to a consumer that the only way for

consumers to initiate credit disputes is by filing a dispute with a
consumer-reporting agency, such representation is inaccurate as a

matter of law.

Instead, Regulation V requires furnishers of credit information to investigate
written disputes it may receive and to contact the applicable consumer-

reporting agency in order to resolve any found errors. 12 C.F.R. § 1022.43.
15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

AAO Dereon MAGA Ps
NOUR PLUS LG

athe A A

4 were NP TPN ae
sperma 7 Mitel MR POR PIMA Mesias
APiGeSP gL F POORER ASA Oe Po CAAAS

Also, furnishers of credit information may investigate a consumer-initiated

dispute based solely on a consumer’s phone call.

When consumers are provided inaccurate information about how they can
initiate credit inquiries or disputes, their rights may be impeded in their
efforts to ensure that their consumer reports are accurate. The added hurdle
of filing a dispute with the consumer-reporting agency could slow the
process, leaving the consumer with an inaccurate report for a longer time.
In some cases, adding additional burdens on the consumers could
discourage consumers from making efforts to try to initiate disputes in the

first place.

An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Information that is material to consumers is information that is likely to
affect a consumer’s conduct regarding the product or service. Express
claims are presumptively material.

The information provided to Harbour’s consumers described above is
material because it was express and because it would likely affect a
consumer’s conduct regarding how to go about getting consumer-

reporting errors resolved.
20. Therefore, Respondents engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation

of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Violations of Regulation V and FCRA
for Failing to Establish and Implement Required Policies and Procedures

21. Regulation V requires furnishers to “establish and implement reasonable
written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the
information relating to consumers that it furnishes to a consumer reporting
agency.” 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42(a).

22. The policies and procedures must be appropriate to the nature, size,
complexity, and scope of the furnisher’s activities and must consider the
guidelines contained in Appendix E of the Furnisher Rule. 12 C.F.R. §
1022.42(a)-(b).

23. | Appendix E includes guidance to: (1) establish and implement internal
controls to ensure the accuracy and integrity of information furnished to
consumer-reporting agencies about consumers; (2) train staff that furnish
information; (3) provide appropriate and effective oversight of service
providers; (4) delete, update, and correct information in the furnisher’s
records, as appropriate, to avoid furnishing inaccurate information; (5)
design appropriate technology to communicate with consumer-reporting
agencies; and (6) conduct a periodic evaluation of its policies and

procedures. 12 C.F.R. § 1022, Appendix E.
24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

Appendix E also directs furnishers to consider “feedback received from
consumer reporting agencies, consumers, or other appropriate parties.” 12
C.F.R. § 1022, Appendix E.

NAM has a Quality Control Manual, which contains a section relating to
consumer reporting (the Policy).

In large part, the Policy summarizes some of FCRA and Regulation V’s
requirements, and states that NAM’s servicing manager will conduct
“routine FDCPA and FCRA refreshers and seminars.” The Policy does not
delineate any specific guidance for complying with FCRA or Regulation V,
nor does it lay out any processes regarding the accuracy and integrity of
information furnished to consumer-reporting agencies other than stating the

person to whom employees should address questions.

NAM did not provide adequate training for its staff. Consequently,
consumers were, at times, misled about how to resolve consumer-

reporting errors. NAM also did not update their policies and procedures in
response to the consumer complaints—feedback from consumers

discussed in Appendix E—that should have put NAM on notice that its
credit reporting may have been inaccurate.

NAM therefore violated Regulation V by failing to establish and implement

the required reasonable written policies and procedures. 12 C.F.R.
29.

30.

31.

2020-BCFP-0004 Document’ Filed 06/23/2020 Page 9 of 24

§ 1022.42(a)-(c).
ORDER
V.
Conduct Provisions
IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:
Respondents and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys
who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with servicing a consumer-financial product or
service may not misrepresent or assist others in misrepresenting, expressly
or impliedly, how consumers can initiate disputes concerning their
consumer reports.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, NAM must establish and implement:
a. reasonable written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and
integrity of information that it furnishes to consumer-reporting agencies;

and

b. a plan to review such policies and procedures periodically to update them
as necessary to ensure their continued effectiveness.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Harbour must complete all steps

necessary to register for the Bureau’s Company Portal, including providing

the information required at www.consumerfinance.gov/company-signup
32.

33.

AA PRA RR AMA 8 ~~ . oA pansy er a eer
SPAM Ree Te AS A PP sey en meyyoaeed of Slat PU PO FOAMS
eed bebe opr betaad rgb old PM CE GE Paes rhe of PT PTBAP ER EEN Eo CS i ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YOPIRE AS WA oa coe

and in the Bureau’s Company Portal Boarding Form (OMB No. 3170-
0054). Harbour and NAM, in connection with responding to consumer
complaints and inquiries, whether acting directly or indirectly, are each
subject to and may not violate § 1034(b) and (c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C.
§ 5534(b) and (c).

VI.
Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, NAM must submit to the Enforcement
Director for review and determination of non-objection a comprehensive
compliance plan designed to ensure that NAM’s consumer-reporting policies
and procedures comply with all applicable Federal consumer financial laws
and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The Compliance

Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent Order;
and
b. specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination

of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct NAM to revise it. If the
34.

35.

36.

APO PAE AMA ~ a oe AN EA ~~ aa nN
AOAC DLAAAA Miners t fF Pia PS fea haan Meawe Pt at Det
tn te Med 2 “ RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA PF tat 6 3 A Ld al

feria ett
Boe SF ne

Enforcement Director directs NAM to revise the Compliance Plan, NAM
must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to the
Enforcement Director within 15 days.
After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, NAM must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

VII.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalties

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Harbour must pay acivil

money penalty of $25,000 to the Bureau.

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), NAA and NAM must pay
a civil money penalty of $10,000 to the Bureau. NAA and NAM are jointly
and severally liable for this obligation. NAA and NAM may set forth each

party’s allocable share among themselves, but such agreement shall not be
37.

38.

39.

APA PR ORE RA ARMA ~ . A pansy er a eer
SAA eee r AMA A PP sey en meyyoaeed of Silad & VO PIS FASS
eed bebe opr betaad rgb old PM CE GE Paes rhe of PT PTBAP ER EEN Eo CS i ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YOPIRE AS WA oa coe

binding on the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Harbour must pay the

applicable civil money penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the
Bureau’s agent in compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date or by July 3, 2020, whichever is

later, NAA or NAM must pay the applicable civil money penalty by

wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in compliance

with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

Each civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

Each Respondent, for all purposes, must treat any civil money penalty paid
under this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of
how the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondents may not:

a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax

benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this

Consent Order.
40.

41.

APA PR ORE RA ARMA ~ . A pansy er a eer
SAA eee r AMA A PP sey en meyyoaeed of Silad & VO PIS FASS
eed bebe opr betaad rgb old PM CE GE Paes rhe of PT PTBAP ER EEN Eo CS i ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YOPIRE AS WA oa coe

To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondents may not argue that Respondents are entitled
to, nor may Respondents benefit by, any offset or reduction of any
compensatory monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action
because of the civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any
payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in
any Related Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of
compensatory monetary remedies imposed against a Respondent based on
the civil money penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund, that Respondent must, within 30
days after entry of a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the
Bureau, and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury.
Such a payment will not be considered an additional civil money penalty and
will not change the amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this

action.

In the event of any default on any Respondent’s obligation to make
payment under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28
U.S.C. § 1961, as amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts
not paid from the date of default to the date of payment and will

immediately become due and payable.
42.

43.

44,

45.

POP O-BCEP.Oo0a4 Boacument 4 Fuad O8/e8/20380 Pane id af da
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPPA A wo AF AS : Lge FP

Respondents must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds
paid to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondents.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, each Respondent, unless it already has done so,
must furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identifying numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, every Respondent to this Consent Order that
was party to the Related Consumer Action must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

VII.
Reporting Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondents must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not

limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
46.

47.

AAA POR AT FU a, aut A PP PR FNS FO Raaewe, A rN -«
202° O0-BCER.O004 Boacument 4 Flead OS/eS/OoeR Rane 15 of PA
than Sad an at Rad Nat RPA TAS Pd POPPA A oe Nab iw oP : She bP ka

result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution

of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices

subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in the Respondent’s name
or address. The Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least

30 days before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after

the development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Harbour and NAM must each:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal
addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to communicate
with Respondent;

b. identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or

that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,

telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses;
and
c. describe the activities of each such business, including the products and
services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales.
Harbour and NAM must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 46 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.
48.

49.

ARAM SAR AMM ~ a oe AN EA
2OOH LRRD ASA Mie issycinmt 4 Pia PS fea haan
Sa tet - RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POEPROAS AA? ae ee

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective

Date, Harbour must submit to the Enforcement Director an accurate written

compliance progress report (Compliance Report), sworn to under penalty of

perjury, which, at a minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order
and describes in detail the manner and form in which Harbour has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order; and

b. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section

IX, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date and again one year after receiving
notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, NAM must submit to the

Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report), sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a

minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order
and describes in detail the manner and form in which NAM has complied
with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order;

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which NAM has complied

with the Compliance Plan; and
50.

SI.

52.

53.

APA PR ORE RA ARMA ~ . A pansy er a eer
SAA eee r AMA A PP sey en meyyoaeed of Silad & VO PIS FASS
eed bebe opr betaad rgb old PM CE GE Paes rhe of PT PTBAP ER EEN Eo CS i ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YOPIRE AS WA oa coe

c. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section
IX, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

IX.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, each Respondent must deliver a copy
of this Consent Order to each of its executive officers, as well as to any
managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and representatives

who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, each Respondent must deliver a copy of
this Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in
structure referred to in Section VIII, any future board members and
executive officers, as well as to any managers, employees, service providers,
or other agents and representatives who will have responsibilities related to
the subject matter of the Consent Order before they assume their
responsibilities.

Each Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging
54.

AA PRA RR AMA 8 ~~ . oA pansy er a eer
SPAM Ree Te AS A PP sey en meyyoaeed of Slat PU PO FOAMS
eed bebe opr betaad rgb old PM CE GE Paes rhe of PT PTBAP ER EEN Eo CS i ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YOPIRE AS WA oa coe

receipt of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic
signatures comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. §
7001 et seg., within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of
this Consent Order under this Section.
X.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Each Respondent must create and retain the following business records:
a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with

each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions to the

Bureau;

b. copies of all written policies and procedures, scripts, letter templates,

and training materials, including any such materials used by a third party
on a Respondent’s behalf, related to communicating with consumers
about consumer reporting;

c. all consumer complaints related to consumer reporting (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses to
those complaints;

d. records showing, for each employee providing services related to

consumer reporting, that person’s name, telephone number, email,
55.

56.

OO BCE BLO Ye

ENP OA ; - ‘ Satna # Tite p TS yews, Oe at ‘
e ot ba bh Ret het PEMD be flea ry ost A é RES CEM AT
BNP eT ES Pd WIA RE PAS EE 7 POPPE VA oa ee PCA PoP Ul ann

physical, and postal address, job title or position, dates of service, and, if
applicable, the reason for termination; and
e. records showing, for each service provider providing services related to
consumer reporting, the name of a point of contact, and that person’s
telephone number, email, physical, and postal address, job title or
position, dates of service, and, if applicable, the reason for termination.
Each Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 54

available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XI.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondents must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re
Harbour Portfolio Advisors, LLC, et al., File No. 2020-BCFP-0004” and
send them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and

a 4 oN a* con m4

. vo
TS ae oe ete) oR ae pees ee be ewan pen fore wean ER yA:
Re Ty ee aes ot OV Ai a ewes eh ere oye
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement Comopliance¢ect PO. QOV
nee A ae a eee!

Assistant Director for Enforcement
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement
1700 G Street, N.W.

Washington D.C. 20552
57.

58.

59.

APA PR ORE RA ARMA ~ . A pansy er a eer
SAA eee r AMA A PP sey en meyyoaeed of Silad & VO PIS FASS
eed bebe opr betaad rgb old PM CE GE Paes rhe of PT PTBAP ER EEN Eo CS i ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YOPIRE AS WA oa coe

XII.
Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, each
Respondent must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested
non-privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order,
which must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony

related to requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance

with those requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.

Each Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with any Respondent
who has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have
counsel present.

Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory

process.
60.

61.

62.

SAA RSA RA AMA ~ . A puss SOP NS Ee ro ~~ a ~~ «
SOOO BRE RASA Mie issycinmt 4 Pia PS fea haan Meare Ot at Det
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPS! AP ose ole : MS eo de EE tl

XII.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Any Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of
this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to
reporting requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement
Director.

The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-

material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of

time and changes to reporting requirements) if the Enforcement Director
determines good cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by
the Enforcement Director must be in writing.
XIV.

Administrative Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against any Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 63. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any

other person or governmental agency from taking any action against any
63.

64.

65.

POP O-BCEP.Oo0a4 Boacument 4 Fuad O8/e8/20380 Pane 2? of 24
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa POPPA Ae ae wo AF AS : Leg he Eatin

Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondents from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against any Respondent

and its affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or

practice of violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations

or to calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or
affect any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except
to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,

suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated
66.

67.

68.

69.

AA PRA RR AMA 8 ~~ . oA pansy er a eer
SPAM Ree Te AS A PP sey en meyyoaeed of Slat PU PO FOAMS
eed bebe opr betaad rgb old PM CE GE Paes rhe of PT PTBAP ER EEN Eo CS i ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed YOPIRE AS WA oa coe

agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should any Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations
that are subject to this Consent Order, that Respondent must, as a condition
of sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply
with all applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For

any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum

amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondents wherever Respondents may be found and Respondents may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondents.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulations contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulations. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulations supersede any prior oral or written

communications, discussions, or understandings.
2020-BCFP-0004 Document1 Filed 06/23/2020 Page 24 of 24

70. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulations may be

construed as allowing any Respondent, or its officers or employees to violate -
f
any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, nisl TO ot ean a 2020.

Kathleen L.
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

  
    
