cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Contract for Deed Companies
for Engaging in Deceptive Acts and Practices and Violating Credit Reporting
Rules

JUN 23, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) settled
with Harbour Portfolio Advisors, LLC (Harbour); National Asset Advisors, LLC (NAA); and
National Asset Mortgage, LLC (NAM), companies that worked together to issue contracts for
deeds to consumers. Under the terms of the contracts, consumers repaid a fixed principal
over a term of years with interest. Harbour’s business plan was to acquire foreclosed
properties in bulk, at auction, from entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and resell
them to individual consumers. Harbour targeted potential buyers who were for the most
part unable to obtain conventional financing and offered them financing through contracts
for deed. Between 2012 and 2016, several thousand consumers initiated contracts for

deeds with Harbour. NAA and NAM, as Harbour’s agents, then serviced the contracts by
collecting payments, fielding disputes from consumers, and speaking with consumers about
the contracts’ terms. Harbour is a Texas limited-liability company. NAA and NAM are South
Carolina limited-liability companies; NAA dissolved in 2018 . As Harbour’s agent, NAM
furnishes consumer credit information to credit-reporting agencies.

The Bureau’s investigation found that between 2012 and 2016, when consumers called
NAA or NAM to complain about errors on their consumer reports relating to their financing
with Harbour, they were sometimes told that they had to file a dispute with the consumer-
reporting agency. These representations were inaccurate and constituted deceptive acts
and practices in violation of the Consumer Financial Protection Act. Regulation V, which
implements the Fair Credit Reporting Act, required NAA or NAM to investigate written
disputes and contact the consumer-reporting agency to resolve any errors. Also, either
company could investigate a consumer-reporting complaint based solely on a consumer's
phone call, and if they discovered an error, could fix the error by contacting the consumer-
reporting agency. The Bureau also found that NAM lacked adequate policies and
procedures to protect the accuracy and integrity of information furnished to consumer-
reporting agencies, in violation of Regulation V.

Under the settlement, Harbour will pay a $25,000 civil money penalty to the Bureau, and
NAA and NAM will jointly pay a $10,000 civil money penalty to the Bureau. The companies
also agreed not to misrepresent or assist others in misrepresenting, expressly or impliedly,
how consumers can resolve errors in their consumer reports or any other material fact
concerning their consumer reports. NAM agreed to establish and implement reasonable
written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of information that it
furnishes to consumer-reporting agencies, and a plan to review such policies and
procedures periodically to update them as necessary to ensure their continued
effectiveness.

A copy of the consent order filed with the Bureau is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_harbour-portfolio-advisors-et-
al_consent-order_2020-06.pdf ll (cfpb.gov/documents/8937/cfpb_harbour-portfolio-adviso
rs-et-al_consent-order_2020-06.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
