2020-BCFP-0014 Document’ Filed 09/02/2020 Page 1 of 48

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0014

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Accelerate Mortgage, LLC

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of Accelerate Mortgage, LLC
(Accelerate or Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of §
1026.24 of Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the
Truth in Lending Act (TILA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage
Acts and Practices—Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. §
1014.3; and §§ 1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12

U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order.
AAA Perr AAA A my ak ee A ey Ne a a
POP OARCEB_OO TA Macument 4 ied GOA (O86 Dana 2 af a
he LP I NE Me te : - PRP Le ea ea Po Cake aM

Overview
At different times during the Relevant Period, Accelerate has acted as a
mortgage broker and mortgage lender that offers and provides mortgages
guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
Accelerate advertises these mortgage products to consumers through direct-
mail advertising campaigns targeted primarily at United States military
servicemembers and veterans.
Accelerate has sent consumers more than one million advertisements that
violate federal law because of misleading and deceptive statements and
inadequate disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop Accelerate from distributing
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate

disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.

I.

Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12
U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as

amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $5538.
ee Pe PE RN Ue ee Co weeny 2 ARS Bere Py “ss eo o4
SAHOO Rees And aA Maciiercrmt 4 ihe QQ EASDPaMAIs Maar 8 at A
OU Ere be PSR Se bere PE Ea Road PaPPseskr yy Pree Gary LT obtet re be ek eee eer eh To s £3 2
ae A RI Ne oor : - hot EE A a a Po GaN st AE

UI.
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 25, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under §§
1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

IV.

Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertising Compliance Official’ means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 98. The Advertising Compliance
Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,

chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
er anes ARRAN RR RA =
Spee ot Sia AGIA onoey ™
PRIA bike ope bee

Ask ata oe i

AAA Pe OA
S990. RBCER.OO4 A qfODogeg
Pw ee Po PN Lea Ue aoa

het We BS Po

oe We AP ahd 8

Pe
sae

a3
oe
cp

Pe
whe

© 40
o“ va Ss
Oras

of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be in a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears; presented before the consumer incurs any
financial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.
“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exemplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contained in the advertisement as sent, posted,
published, or disseminated to a consumer.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of

one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
10.

11.

AAS LPP OEE PRA FE > _ Co ween DORR TN RN ry ~~ cos
AAA Meee AAs A Mauer pesca of Pad AGIA Amon Masa A at A
OU Ere be PSR Se bere PE Ea uot PaPPseskr yy Pree Gary LT obtet re be ek eee Pr ett fi LS oe
She ad BP et NE eRe o : phot Pa Ae ee Bo Gt a Reb Sy

governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent

Order.

g. “Relevant Period” includes from April 9, 2018, to the Effective Date.

h. “Respondent” means Accelerate Mortgage, LLC, and its successors

and assigns.

V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:
Accelerate is a Delaware limited liability corporation with its principal place

of business in Newark, Delaware.

Accelerate is licensed to engage in business as a mortgage broker and lender
in about 31 states.

Accelerate is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(19),
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.F.R. §
1014.2, because it is a limited liability corporation.

During the Relevant Period, Accelerate has been a “covered person” under
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages in

offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

financial product[s] or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6),
(15)(A)Q).

During the Relevant Period, Accelerate has been subject to the MAP Rule
because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58.
12 C.F.R. § 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 5481(14).

Accelerate provides “mortgage credit product[s],” as that term is defined in
the MAP Rule. 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

Accelerate’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
in 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, Accelerate has offered “closed-end credit” in
the form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10) & (11).

Accelerate’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end
credit,” as that term is defined in Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10).
Accelerate offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed by

the VA.
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

AAA Perr AAA A my ak ee A ey Ne mo oe &
SHORE EO A Macument 7 ied GOA (O86 Rare / of 4
ae We Pe sae okt perk PoE Lea a ea Pr CAN FMS

Accelerate’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, including veterans
and servicemembers.

Since April 2018, Accelerate has mailed more than a million mortgage

advertisements to consumers in at least 31 states.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations

Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, Accelerate was responsible for both the content
of, and dissemination of, numerous mortgage advertisements during the
Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements,
as described below.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate
Representations About Cost and Other Credit Terms

Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements stated specific credit terms,
such as an interest rate, payment amount, or closing costs.

By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, Accelerate represented,
expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a mortgage with those
credit terms.

In fact, Accelerate did not offer or arrange mortgages with the specific credit
25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

AAA PLS PR ONG ~ os wees ON TN ms ~ e 4
ANA er Me And A Mnciirrant 4 Titan MOO Pamon Mara & et A
oe Ad ee OU AL PS RPA EERE Gg PPPS Lear Ui eae PU eAAaee fo la

terms stated in many of those advertisements.

In numerous instances, Accelerate misrepresented the actual credit terms
applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements misrepresented the interest
rate applicable to the advertised mortgage.

Specifically, Accelerate advertisements sent to 7,105 consumers in April
2018 advertised a VA cash-out refinance loan with a fixed simple interest
rate of 3.75%. But the lowest available rate at the time for a VA cash-out
refinance loan offered by Accelerate was 4.875%.

Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements misrepresented the payment
amount applicable to the advertised mortgage and the existence, nature, or
amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection with the
advertised mortgage.

For example, Accelerate advertisements sent to 13,544 consumers in March
and April 2019 stated that the borrower could “access $20,000 for only
$95.05 per month” with a VA loan.

In reality, obtaming any cash-out amount against the consumer’s home
equity would be possible only if the consumer had an existing mortgage and
refinanced the entire amount owed on that mortgage as part of a cash-out

refinance mortgage, resulting in a total monthly payment larger than $95.05.
31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

AAAS Phe AAA A am “ cen ane oof Pr AR PRS EMA Rca MT Oe A
POP O-BOER-OO74 Macoument 1 Prien Oso (eoeg Pana G of 4
he LP I NE Me te ok! PEikea ge PRENSA Lee ae eo roe rou Me

Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements misrepresented the existence
and amount of fees or costs to the consumer.

Specifically, Accelerate advertisements sent to 7,105 consumers in April
2018 stated that there were “No Closing Costs” for the advertised loan.

All VA loans have closing costs, and Accelerate has never closed a VA loan
without closing costs. Thus, consumers would need to pay closing costs for
the loan featured in these advertisements. Accordingly, in connection with
the loan that Accelerate was advertising, the statement “No Closing Costs”
was false.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in paragraphs 26-33
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations About an
Affiliation with the Government

Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements falsely represented, directly
or by implication, through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that
resemble those of a governmental entity such as the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), that the

provider of the advertised mortgage was, or was affiliated with, a
37.

38.

2020-BCFP-0014 Document1 Filed 09/02/2020 Page 10 of 48

governmental entity, that the advertisement was sent by or on behalf of the
VA or another governmental entity, or that the advertised product related to
a federal tax benefit, or was endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with the
IRS or the FDIC.

For example, Accelerate advertisements sent to 381,829 consumers from
April through October 2018 were formatted to look like a notification letter

from the IRS. The top of these advertisements appeared as follows:

A018

sam
hl

 

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE

1*41 #1 eer ALL FOR AADC 207

 

The advertisements included the year “2018” printed in block numbers in the
top right corner with the “20” in white and the “18” in black, a distinctive
format used by the IRS. In the top left corner, where the name of the sender
would normally appear, was a QR Code, and underneath that the words in
bold “ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.” The combined effect made the return
address/sender portion of the advertisements look like an IRS return address

block and gave the impression that the communication was coming from the
39.

40.

4].

AM PAE AM ~ . 4 IAEA ~~ aa ~ 4am
2OOHO EB As A Mie issycinmt 4 Clan OFA renen Beane dt af As
SNP eM Pee E 2 a RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS wh I a ee! PU CARRS Of oF Lae AG

IRS.

These advertisements were formatted as letters to the consumer, witha
greeting followed by two sections headed “NOTICE” and “STATUS.” The
body of the letter instructed the consumer to “please call our VA Program
Customer Support Representative” and to reference a specified “NOTICE
NUMBER” on the call. Accelerate’s name did not appear anywhere in the
body of the letter. Instead, Accelerate’s logo was relegated to the bottom of
the page, just above the fine print. Accelerate’s logo incorporated an image
resembling the American flag, which added to the impression that the
communication was from an official government source.

Similarly, Accelerate advertisements sent to 42,311 consumers from July
through October 2018 used the IRS’s distinctive black and white block letter
formatting of the year “2018,” and displayed a QR Code next to the words
“ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE” where the sender’s name would normally
appear.

These advertisements also instructed the consumer to call “our VA Program
Representative... to receive a detailed explanation of the benefits available
and how to access them.” In addition to these characteristics, this instruction
implied that if consumers called the toll-free number provided, they would

be connected to someone affiliated with the VA who could advise them on
42.

43.

44.

45.

2020-BCFP-0014 Document1 Filed 09/02/2020 Page 12 of 48

their benefits, rather than an employee of a third-party mortgage broker or
lender interested in convincing them to refinance their current mortgage.

In another example, Accelerate advertisements sent to 30,500 consumers in
October 2018 were formatted to look like an official citation or ticket, as

follows:

 

EXPIRATION NOTICE

 

 

RE:
County: Maricopa County

 

= : —)
GHA SEQ Rmese ALL FOR AADC 852 oe oT =

 

Notice Number: | VAZ30148b70 _

 

betel gg feta | LEU fen fecal pla] ffedag plage t dag ptt PE] | Requirements: Waiting Period —
Completion =

 

 

 

 

 

The use of the words “EXPIRATION NOTICE” in bold with reference to
the property address and county in which the property was located,
combined with the barcode along the left-hand side and the details about the
“Notice Type” and “Notice Number,” created the impression that the
document was from a government agency.

In another example, Accelerate advertisements sent to 6,501 consumers in
April 2018 displayed an official “Member FDIC” logo, even though
Accelerate is not and has never been a member of the FDIC.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in paragraphs 36-44

 
46.

RPA PR AES 6 oo ~ . A pay NS Ee ae = ~
AAO Beem AAA Payee cssscamd 4 Cad MIA aAan Fre, 2 at y

ee eh ba he LP ew £ POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PRG’ PML De Ft eee pe et es oF SS Fe gas
hn Sad ate RP Bat RPA TAS Pd SPP ASE eal ee? SASS Ne fe QP

were likely to be misled by them.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations About Time Limits on VA Loan Benefits

47.

48.

49.

50.

S1.

Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements falsely represented that the
consumer’s access to mortgage-refinance benefits through VA-guaranteed
loans was time-limited.

For example, Accelerate advertisements sent to 56,497 consumers in July
2019 stated: “This VA Cash-Out program is available to Veterans like you!
This offer is available to you through July 15, 2019.” The advertisements
provided general information about VA cash-out refinance loans, such as
stating that the cash-out refinance loan, including the consumer’s existing
mortgage balance, could be for up to 100% of the home’s value. The
advertisements did not provide any time-sensitive mortgage terms such as
interest rate, APR, or payment amount.

This statement above represented that the veteran’s access to benefits under
the “VA Cash-Out program” would expire after July 15, 2019.

In fact, that representation was false because a veteran’s eligibility for and
access to the benefits of a VA loan never expire.

Reasonable consumers who received the advertisements described in
52.

53.

54.

55.

ARAN PRA FG Lo ~ _ 4 weg ks
SOOO BRERA A Miners t fF Puac
SSP eM - RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

PEON EEN ERS POE PL ry -~ AA LG oas
HOI oen Basen Ta af As
A A a a 5a Ae oF SP Ue Sr

paragraphs 47-50 were likely to be misled by them under the circumstances.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

Inadequate Disclosures
Many of Accelerate’s mortgage advertisements stated a period of repayment
or the amount of a payment. Under certain sections of Regulation Z,
including § 1026.24(d) and (f), the use of these terms triggers specific
disclosure requirements. Many of the advertisements did not include the
other disclosures that are required or did not include them in the manner
required.
Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements stated the period of
repayment or the amount of a payment, but failed to state the terms of
repayment reflecting the consumer’s repayment obligations over the full
term of the loan.
For example, the advertisements for cash-out refinance loans described in
Paragraphs 29-30 above stated a payment amount but failed to state the
terms of repayment reflecting the repayment obligations over the full term of
the loan. Specifically, the advertisements disclosed terms of repayment only
for the portion of the loan that would be used to cash out the $20,000

amount against the consumer’s home equity; they did not disclose the terms
56.

57.

58.

59.

AAA AP AMAA Pe my AAI Ae mS A Rh AG
POPO-RCE PLOT A Racwument 7 Fuad OO/92/e080 Pade 15 af 48
SNP eI Pe ? BA AEN Pa PO oPyo Ae Noh Na Bal a oe A : A ee ed

of repayment for the full amount of the advertised cash-out refinance loan
over the full term of the loan.

In another example, Accelerate advertisements sent to 20,002 consumers in
November 2018 stated that the advertised mortgage would have a monthly
payment of $1,304.12.

Although these advertisements stated a payment amount, they failed to state
the annual percentage rate (APR) of the advertised mortgage.

Numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements stated the amount of a
payment, but failed to state the amount of each payment that would apply
over the term of the loan; failed to clearly and conspicuously state the period
during which each payment would apply; or failed to state the fact that the
advertised payments did not include amounts for taxes and insurance
premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment obligation would be
greater, or failed to do so clearly and conspicuously.

For example, the advertisements for cash-out refinance loans described in
Paragraphs 29-30 above disclosed only the monthly payment amount for the
portion of the loan that would be used to take out the advertised cash-out
amount. Although these advertisements stated a payment amount, they failed
to disclose the full amount of each payment that would apply over the term

of the loan. These advertisements also did not contain an equally prominent
60.

61.

62.

and closely proximate statement of the period during which each payment
would apply, as Regulation Z requires in § 1026.24(f)(3). The term of the
loan was stated only in fine print at the bottom. Theadvertisements also
failed to disclose that the payment amount did not include amounts for taxes
and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation would be greater.

VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION Z

Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a)
Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a), “[i]fan advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”
Accelerate violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 22-33,
numerous Accelerate advertisements for credit stated specific credit terms
other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or offered by

the creditor.

Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)
Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), ifan advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount

of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t]he terms of repayment, which reflect
the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, including any
balloon payment” and the APR of the loan. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1),
(2)(i1), (iti).

63. Accelerate violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs 54-57,
numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements set forth the period of
repayment or the amount of any payment, which are triggering terms under §
1026.24(d)(1)(ii) and (11), but failed to state the repayment obligations over
the full term of the loan, pursuant to § 1026.24(d)(2)(i1) or the APR of the

loan, pursuant to § 1026.24(d)(2)(in).
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)

64. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the amount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that will apply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first lien ona
dwelling, the fact that the payments do not include amounts
65.

66.

67.

for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the
actual payment obligation will be greater.

Accelerate violated § 1026.24(f)(3)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs
58-59, numerous Accelerate direct-mail mortgage advertisements stated the
amount of a payment but did not include one or more of the disclosures
required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(3)(4)(A) through (C), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(3)(i).

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP RULE (REGULATION N)
Misrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|t]he annual
percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”
applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, sucha
misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Accelerate violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 26-27,
numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations

about the interest rate applicable to a mortgage credit product.
68.

69.

70.

ARAN PRA FG Lo ~ _ 4 weg ks
SOOO BRERA A Miners t fF Puac
SSP eM - RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

PEE TENS PE oa A aw AS
HOI oen Dare TO af As
SG A aa a eA? SASS Ae Pwr Ga Sr

Misrepresentations About Fees or Costs, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he existence,
nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer associated with the
mortgage credit product, including but not limited to misrepresentations that
no fees are charged.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation ts
specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

Accelerate violated § 1014.3(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 31-33,
numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer

associated with a mortgage credit product.

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 C.E.R. § 1014.3q@)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(j), itis a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, including but not limited to

misrepresentations that the consumer will receive a certain amount of cash
71.

72.

73.

ARAN AAPM Ama a Py, nt A Py PL TNE Fe So IN EADS
PYOO LR BLAM A Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGIA roan Bane OF At AS
SSP eM BP ASLP PERG Gk og Sob! AS

See eT eG TaN Ge et
\ Aa aa A A » OSA MS Ae GA Get AP

or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Accelerate violated § 1014.3(j) because, as described in Paragraphs 28-30,
numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available to the consumer in
connection with the mortgage credit product, including misrepresentations
that the consumer would receive a certain amount of cash as part of a

mortgage credit transaction.
Misrepresentations About Payments, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he existence,
number, amount, or timing of any minimum or required payments, including
but not limited to misrepresentations about any payments or that no
payments are required in a reverse mortgage or other mortgage credit
product.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Accelerate violated § 1014.3(k) because, as described in Paragraphs 28-30,

numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
APN PN PARE RA ee tg ~ : of pay SPN Ee a a oe ~ *~
SAA eee pry Ara Pree ey ceed of Cia f WD FONE FLY Brees, Ret at AG
eh bate Ome ew a de d b de POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe PEGs gush de Pek Pe eA eS rR FT gas
Bon dl ate RU Ra ’ Be AS Pe kd SPs Nah NE Bal Ba Sa hn MS 3 aA o fe PF i “Tis

about the payments that would be required in connection with the advertised

mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations About Government Affiliation, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n)

74. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about:

the association of the mortgage credit product or any provider
of such product with any other person or program, including

but not limited to misrepresentations that:

(1) The provider is, or is affiliated with, any
governmental entity or other organization; or

(2) The product is or relates to a government benefit, or
is endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with any
government or other program, including but not limited
to through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that

resemble those of such entity, organization, or
program.

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

75. Accelerate violated § 1014.3(n) because, as described in Paragraphs 36-44,
numerous Accelerate mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit product was, or was

affiliated with, a governmental entity; that the advertised product related to a
70.

TT,

78.

79.

ARAN MAP ArnaAGS PY ce et mh AIA IAA mh NN AS
POO OSCE RLOANT SA Pocument 7 Pidead Gosoefreoneg Pana 2? of d&
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa PPPS Ae

See eT eG TANG oF
\ Aa aa A A » OSA MS Me Gn Qed Pk

federal tax benefit; or that the advertised product was endorsed by,
sponsored by, or affiliated with a governmental entity such as the IRS or the
FDIC.

VIOLATIONS OF THE CFPA

Under the CFPA, it is unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-financial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Information that is likely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service 1s material to consumers.
Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 22-35, Accelerate’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
specific credit terms were available or would be arranged or offered by the
creditor, including representations about specific interest rates, payment

amounts, or closing costs stated in those advertisements, when in fact those
80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

APA PR OA PR of 2 ~ : of pansy SO EN ES ax rae ~ *~
AAO Beem AAA Pree ey ceed of Clan FOIA FOO Preece, RR al AD
ee eh ba he LP ew £ POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PLEAD b pea se : SS
an Mt an at Bat Naa RPA TAS Pd PoP Ae

See eT eG Pe eA Test Or OE ra
\ Aa aa A A » OSA MS i 2 UO So

specific credit terms were not available or were not terms that Accelerate

was actually prepared to arrange or offer.

Accelerate’s misrepresentations about the availability ofthe advertised
credit terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers
acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Accelerate’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Accelerate engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
Deceptive Representations About Government Affiliation

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 36—46, Accelerate’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
Accelerate was affiliated with a governmental entity; that the advertised
product related to a federal tax benefit; that the advertised product was
endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with a governmental entity such as the
IRS or the FDIC; or that the advertisement was sent by or on behalf of the
VA or another governmental entity.

In fact, Accelerate was not affiliated with the government and the advertised

product did not relate to a federal tax benefit; the advertised product was not
85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

91.

ARAN PRA FG Lo ~ _ 4 weg ks
SOOO BRERA A Miners t fF Puac
SSP eM - RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

PEN EES FR ET ry . OA LAS
HOI oen Base Od af As
NNER al Ba NaF how SP SASS Ne GP rk

endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with the IRS or the FDIC; and the
advertisement was not sent by or on behalf of the VA or another
governmental entity.
Accelerate’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were likely to
mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.
Accelerate’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were material
because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of consumers.
Therefore, Accelerate engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About Time Limits on VA Loan Benefits
In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 47-52, Accelerate’ s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that a
veteran’s access to mortgage-refinance benefits through VA-guaranteed
loans was time-limited.
In fact, a veteran’s eligibility for and access to the benefits of a VA loan
never expire.
Accelerate’s misrepresentations about time limits on VA loan benefits were
likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.
Accelerate’s misrepresentations about time limits on VA loan benefits were

material because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of
92.

93.

94.

95.

consumers.
Therefore, Accelerate engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Violations of the CFPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Zand the MAP Rule

Under the CFP A, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules

thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5536(a)(1)(A), 5481(14).

Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.

Accelerate’s violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 60-75, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12

U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

VI.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§

5563, 5565, that:

96.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, and
AHO Seem AAA Peek crescendo
oo ed we LT bea y Re at te ant
ee TL POU AA Pe RE PAS EE 7

 

in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale

of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or
by implication:

1. Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to the following: the total
costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or
central characteristics;

2. The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any
consumer; or

3. The existence of any deadline, expiration date, or timeframe for
a consumer to obtain or exercise his or her VA benefits.

b. Including or using any words, phrases, images, or design
characteristics that falsely state or imply that:

1. The source of the advertisement is the government or is
affiliated with the government; or

2. The advertisement is anything other than an advertisement for a

mortgage;
ARAN PRA FG Lo ~ _ 4 weg ks
SOOO BRERA A Miners t fF Puac
SSP eM RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

PEON PAS IAPR ry ey fag
HOI oen Bane OF af AS
A A a a y SA MS Ae ae Fo Ge OP

C. Including or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or

design characteristics:

1. “Benefit announcement”

2. “Eligibility advisory”

3. “Eligibility notice”

4, “Eligibility status”

5. “Expiration notice”

6. “Pending authorization”

7. “VA loan department”

8. “VA loan representative”

9. “VA loan specialist”

10. “VA program customer support”

11. “VA specialist”

12. “Waiting period”

13. TheIRS signature year style (two digits in white or outlined
text and the other two digits in black text);

14. The format of anIRS form, including Form W-2, ora
substantially similar format; or

15. Any VA or United States Department of Defense (DOD) logo,

or a logo, emblem, or other representation that resembles—or
97.

AMON EAE ON _
SOOO RE RASA A
Ba Sf tn ST et “

my aut A Ph PN EO ek Meese, TO «7 AG
Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan AGIA roan Bane OR Af As
RPA TAS Pd SPP Are

; we Pid eee Pe ae RS are + 4 f
Le Aa aa A A PO SAGNS O UP So

that a consumer could reasonably interpret asa—a VA or DOD

logo.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or

offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following

affirmative actions:

a.

Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and implied
claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement that states a cash-out
amount for a cash-out refinance mortgage and a monthly payment
amount only for the portion of that mortgage used to obtain that cash-
out amount, Respondent must disclose, Clearly and Prominently: (1)
that obtaining the stated cash-out amount requires the consumer to
refinance the entire amount of the consumer’s existing mortgage with
a new loan purchased from Respondent, and (2) the total monthly
payment amount(s) for such a refinanced mortgage.

If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the
AMON EAE ON _
SOOO RE RASA A
Ba Sf tn ST et “

Tomer ised 4 Cia
Sse yee fk Sary : he Pi eag
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

PEON PAS IAPR ry Me fag
HOI oen Dare FO af AS
A A a a 5a Ae ger Gi SP

amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minimum:

1.

2.

The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

The amount of each payment that will apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

The period during which each payment will apply;

The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and
The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate

may be increased after consummation, that fact.

Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be

made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under

Regulation Z, 12 CF.R. § 1026.24, must be:
98.

AMON POE a ~ . 4 omy .
SOOO RE RASA A Pieacmiyrent 4 Pdac
SSP eM RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS

PE FANE EASES Res, OA aT AG
: yaa oe SEV Art RJ epeycs U4 fy aot Ant

: Rae wh ee oat 2 i
YS Aa aa A A POSALNS Ar eb orks

1. In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments
triggering the required disclosures;

2. Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

3. Otherwise compliant with Regulation Z, as applicable.

VIL.

Advertising Review

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the following

affirmative actions:

a. Respondent’s Advertising Compliance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it is
compliant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims
made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that

they are accurate and substantiated.
AM PAE AM ~ . 4 pay ok
2OOHO EB As A Miners t fF Puac
SSP eM - RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS

PEN EAS PO Py yt £as
YOfAsleoneg Paae 3 of 48
MAG A ea oe SOCAGNe AF OP Ge re

Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template ts
mailed to consumers, the Advertising Compliance Official must
review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any
envelope, mailer, and enclosures—to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFP A, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,
expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is disseminated. This requirement
applies whether the set is mailed as a single set or in multiple sets or
subsets. It also applies whether the set is mailed out at a single time or
over a period.

The Advertising Compliance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement
includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate

sheet showing the availability of the advertised rate(s). Ifthe
99.

ARAN MAP ArnaAGS PY ce et mh AIA IAA mh AN AS
POO OSCE RLOANT SA Pocument 7 Pidead Gosoefreoneg Pana SO of d&
on at te PE RPA TAS Pd PPPS Ae

Peg ela eet mat eS -
\ Aa aa A A » OSA MS Me ada Ge Pk

advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all
inputs assumed when calculating that number. Ifthe advertisement
states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
include any materials used to determine the availability of that
amount.

d. The Advertising Compliance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VIII.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s

mortgage advertising complies with all applicable Federal consumer
100.

101.

DE ry mye ~ a
SFO OaIH Rance SOQ af AS
Shot A TAS

AAAS FOR Oe ok ¢
YOO. BCERLOAT A Oe Bane
Sa tet “= Aa aa A A : CAG Ne ~

~ . a pay » NS
PN es eu een onan hod RileaawN Packie
Paes’ CY ee fig PASE
RPA TAS Pd SPP Are

\N

financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent
Order; and

b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps
described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 15 days.

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
102.

103.

104.

105.

MONETARY PROVISIONS
IX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $225,000 to the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) ofthe CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax

benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
POO. RCE PLOT A Pocument 7 Fuad OOf/oefeoeo Pagnea 35 af df
Ba Sf tn ST et RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPPS Ae :

Pee ota eee eat igs
YS Aa aa A A POSALNS wear Leb orks

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, rembursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil money
penalty paid under this Consent Order.

106. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the

amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.
107.

108.

109.

110.

APN PN PARE RA ee tg ~ : of pay SPN Ee ax my ~ *~
SOO Deer AMAA Pee. eyscard of Clan FOIA FOO Maes RR AF AG
eh bate Ome ew a de d b de POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe PEGs gush de Pek Pe AG Test C¥P gees
Bon dl ate RU Ra ’ Be AS Pe kd SPs No NP Bal Ba A Be MF 3 aA a af UPR

Additional Monetary Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.
Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That

notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
I11.

ARAN MAP ArnaAGS PY ce et mh AIA IAA TP nk AG
POO OSCE RLOANT SA Pocument 7 Pidead Gosoefreoneg Pane SY of d&
Ba Sf tn ST et BASE EAGER PPA Ae Gis : 8

See eT eG oat est
Le Aa aa A A PO SALNS Po Sri

or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
XI.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case, no later than 14 days after the

development.

112. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to

communicate with Respondent;
113.

114.

PEON PEND EOS PS my 5 SOAS
Fuca fe PRT RE RES wee gts a DP eds A
Ow ites Mage 36 of 4s

AP AM PLA Ae 8 .
POO ROE DLA A } Ue =
Ba Sf tn ST et “= \ Aa aa A A » OSA MS Meow

Tomer ised 4 Cia
Sse yee fk Sary : he Pi eag
RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

b. — Identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

C. Describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 112 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to

the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by Respondent’s executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph

of the Consent Order;
115.

116.

117.

A PEE OA ~ . 4 IAEA ~~ ~ ~ am
SOA RE DLAA A Mie issycinmt 4 Clan OFA renen Beane BO af ds
tn te Med 2 “ RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS wr ea ee $ CALS PAS? Seo

b. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;

C. Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an
explanation of why any such instances occurred; and

d. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,

sworn under penalty of perjury.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this

Consent Order to each of its board members (if any) and executive officers,

as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents

and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this

Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
118.

119.

120.

APN PORE Ar 8 ~ . oa i ON TN EP a - an
AOAC DANA Mie issycinmt 4 Clan OFA renen Bane AN at As
Sao Te ! * BASLE EER PER Od PPA wht i eA PO TAMSAS Sra Gel Arh

referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 116-17 anda copy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under
Paragraph 118.
XII.

Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12 C.F.R.
§ 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four

months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated the applicable
wy
r
f"
re
ey
”
pee.
x

commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit

product, the following evidence of compliance with the MAP Rule:

a.

Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well
as sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to
consumers; and

Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.
121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

ARAN MAP ArnaAGS PY ce et mh AIA IAA Po A EAD
POO OSCE RLOANT SA Pocument 7 Pidead Gosoefreoneg Pana 2? of d&
on at te PE RPA TAS Pd PPPS Ae

aa eg PL Le eat ig fay
\ Aa aa A A » OSA MS Ne Pan Ge Pk

Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage
advertisements disseminated within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least
5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 98(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retain the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,
including any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
behalf; and

C. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses
to those complaints or requests.

Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 123 for at

least 5 years after creation of the record.

Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraphs 120-24

available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.
126.

127.

APAM PARES AMS ~ a IAEA ~ ve ae
AOAC DANA Mie issycinmt 4 Clad MOMS POA Rane AQ af AS
eae Uke PT ? “ RAP ASE EAD ERG YESS wt a : ALS ke SP Ab Sar

feria ett
Boe SF ne

XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “Jn re
Accelerate Mortgage, LLC, File No. 2020-BCFP-0014,” and send them by
overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb. gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to

requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
128.

129.

130.

131.

ARAN PRA FG Lo ~ _ 4 weg ks
SOOO BRERA A Miners t fF Puac
SSP eM - RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PPA

PEON EEN ERS POE PL ry ~ A wl AD
MOMs feaen Baa dd af 48
NNER al Ba NaF how SP SASS Ae SPAR A rk

requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting

requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
132.

133.

134.

APN PEAR Are & INA ~*~ oar 2k AS
SOO ee ee AA A POA Po Aen Meee AR af AS
i i. i pee st = £ POET : 4 ay Soh §
Le EB 208

~ . A pay » ¢
Taner canon 4 Miias

SOP RSME core? OY ites ft pee Pry eit oe fh

BA AEN Pa PoP A Aa aa A A » OSA MS Ae Sra Gel Sark

The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement

Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as
described in Paragraph 134. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in

this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
135.

136.

137.

138.

ARAN MAP ArnaAGS PY ce et mh AIA IAA Po de EAD
POO OSCE RLOANT SA Pocument 7 Pidead Gosoefreoneg Pana 28 of d&
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa PPPS Ae

aa eg PL Le eat gst far’
\ Aa aa A A » OSA MS Ae PA Gael SYP ke

affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 121—22 and 124—25 of this Consent
Order will terminate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired.
All other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from
the Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that

are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
139.

140.

AM PAE AM ~ . 4 pay ok
2OOHO EB As A Miners t fF Puac
SSP eM - RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS

ADIN AGH Seawe APF Af AD
Rahayt oP eh yi aebd Rees SE Nr ast

: Rae wh ee sag a2
Le Aa aa A A PO SARNS SF Po Sri

obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written

communications, discussions, or understandings.
2020-BCFP-0014 Document1 Filed 09/02/2020 Page 48 of 48

141. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT ISSO ORDERED, this 27 QED of (a puss 4 , 2020.

Kats, bask faomup—

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

 

48
