Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 19078 / February 14, 2005

Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 2187 / February 14, 2005

Securities and Exchange Commission v. GE InVision, Inc. (formerly
known as InVision Technologies, Inc.), United States District Court
for the Northern District of California, Civil Action No. C-05-0660 ME)

SEC SETTLES CHARGES AGAINST INVISION TECHNOLOGIES FOR $1.1
MILLION FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT

The Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) charged InVision
Technologies, Inc. (InVision), a Newark, California-based manufacturer of
explosive detection machines used in airports, with authorizing improper
payments to foreign government officials in violation of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA). Simultaneous with the filing of the Commission's
charges InVision agreed, without admitting or denying the charges, to
disgorge $589,000 in profits from its FCPA violations plus prejudgment
interest of approximately $28,700, and pay a $500,000 civil penalty. InVision
was acquired in December 2004 by the General Electric Company, and now
operates under the name GE InVision, Inc.; the conduct charged by the
Commission occurred prior to the acquisition.

In both a federal court complaint and an administrative order, the Commission
charged that from at least June 2002 through June 2004, InVision employees,
sales agents and distributors pursued transactions to sell explosive detection
machines to airports in China, the Philippines and Thailand. According to the
Commission, in each of these transactions, InVision was aware of a high
probability that its foreign sales agents or distributors made or offered to
make improper payments to foreign government officials in order to obtain or
retain business for InVision. Despite this, InVision allowed the agents or
distributors to proceed on its behalf, in violation of the FCPA. The Commission
also charged that InVision improperly accounted for certain payments to
agents or distributors and failed to have an adequate system of internal
controls to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA.

The Commission's administrative order finds that InVision violated the anti-
bribery, books and records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA
(respectively, Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934). Without admitting or denying liability or the
Commission's findings, InVision agreed to pay disgorgement and prejudgment
interest, cease and desist from violations of the FCPA, and comply with its
undertakings to retain an independent consultant to ensure that InVision
adheres to a corporate compliance program designed to detect and prevent
violations of the FCPA. In the district court action, which alleges the same
violations, InVision agreed to settle the charges, without admitting or denying
liability, and pay a civil penalty.

The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the Department of Justice in
the Commission's investigation. The Commission's investigation is continuing.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http:/www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/Ir19078.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 02/14/2005
