2020-BCFP-0011 Document’ Filed 08/31/2020 Page 1 of 33

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP- 0011

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Sigue Corporation, SGS Corporation, and
GroupEx Corporation

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
remittance-transfer activities of Sigue Corporation (Sigue Corp.), SGS Corporation
(SGS), and GroupEx Corporation (GroupEx) (Respondents, as defined below) and
has identified violations of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA), 15 U.S.C. §
1693-1693r, and its implementing Regulation E, 12 C.F.R. Part 1005, Subpart B
(known as the Remittance Rule). Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. $$ 5563, 5565, the Bureau

issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).
Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, and § 918 of the EFTA, 15 U.S.C. § 16930.
Il.
Stipulation
Respondents have executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 20, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation,
Respondents have consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the
Bureau under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565,
without admitting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of
law, except that Respondents admit the facts necessary to establish the
Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject matter of this action.
IIL.
Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
a. “Affected Consumer” means any consumer who requested that
Respondents resend a remittance transfer for which Respondents had

failed to make the funds available to the designated recipient by the
AAA PAR en SAAN A ot m “ nee ee Php A ANSE PP PN Pe sy gy
IMO REED AN 4 Macimant 4 Siar AAPA Bana @ at
a Rae PSE CR etal oe 5 ary Soe e seks : kg iat ae es ori. ‘

ae WA A ha Ne od Ve fot Ra RR Rd P RRA Meh as be on Nt PO CaS af ASE

date ofavailability stated in the disclosure provided to the sender
under 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31(b)(2) or (3), and who has not otherwise
received a refund of the fees imposed on the remittance transfer to a

sender.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is

issued.

“Board” means Respondents’ duly-elected and acting Board of

Directors or a designated committee thereof.

“Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the West Region
for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer Financial

Protection, or his or her delegate.

‘“Related-Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against any Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent

Order.
AAA Terr AA et = . mi A Perr NEE Pt EA ey ‘ oN
INA Reem AAAs Macmirmnant 7 Mite AS P24 PION Maria of yt 2
> Rae PSE CR etal oe 5 ary Soe e seks : Riise Ais o es ori. £ ‘ ‘

ae We Pe Pur Ro Ra Ra PE P RRA Meh as be fn Nat Po GAM Meh ata

f. “Respondents” means Sigue Corporation (Sigue Corp.), SGS
Corporation (SGS), and GroupEx Financial Corporation (GroupEx),

and their successors and assigns.

IV.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions
The Bureau finds the following:

Background

Respondent Sigue Corp. is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of
business in Sylmar, California. Sigue Corp.’s primary business is to provide
international-money transfers, including remittance transfers.

Respondent SGS is a Kansas corporation with its principal place of business
in Sylmar, California. SGS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sigue Corp.
SGS’s primary business is to provide international-money transfers,
including remittance transfers.

Respondent GroupEx is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of
business in Sylmar, California. GroupEx is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
SGS. GroupEx’s primary business is to provide international-money

transfers, including remittance transfers.
10.

11.

AAA Terr AA et ms . mi A Perr NEE Pt EA ey = oN
INA Reem AAAs Macmirmnant 7 Rihean M8 Pea PAO DMaeprg A at 2
> Rae PSE CR etal oe 5 ary Soe e seks : kg iat ae es ori. ‘ *%
ae We Pe Pur Ro Ra Ra PE P RRA Meh as be fn At PO GALS af ASE aia

Respondents have a distribution network with over 200,000 send-and-
receive locations, offices in 18 countries, and operations in all 50 of the
United States.

Respondents describe themselves as “a leading remittance provider in the
[U.S.] to Mexico Corridor” and focus on immigrant communities in the
United States.

Respondents’ remittance transfers involve transmitting funds and constitute
payment services. These services are offered to consumers primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes. The services are therefore
“consumer financial product[s] or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§
5481(6), (15)(A)(iv), (15)(A)(vii).

Respondents are also remittance-transfer providers under EFT A and
Regulation E because they provide remittance transfers for consumers in the
normal course of their businesses. 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(g)(3); 12 C.F.R. §
1005.30(f).

In 2010, EFT A was amended by adding § 919 to create a comprehensive
system of consumer protections for remittance transfers sent by U.S.
consumers to individuals and businesses in foreign countries. Section 919
includes a number of requirements related to remittance transfers, including

that:
12.

13.

14.

15.

A PPP Td ot mo “ eee ee Petr 2 ASE Pe EP PN ST A
POP O-RCER-OO14 Macument 4 Filed OR F347 /8O8G Page 6 of 3
ae We Pe wt : Jha PR eRe Po RRA bie ot roe ro ME 8

e remittance-transfer providers must disclose the exchange rate, the
amount to be received, and other information both before and at
the time the consumer pays for the transfer, 15 U.S.C. § 16930-

I(a)(1) & (2);

e consumers have certain rights regarding cancellation and refunds,
15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(d);

e remittance-transfer providers must investigate disputes and remedy
errors regarding remittances, 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(d); and

e remittance-transfer providers are liable for certain acts of their
agents, 15 U.S.C. § 16300-1(f).

The Bureau issued rules to implement these requirements, which became
effective on October 28, 2013. These rules are known as the Remittance
Rule.

Respondents provide remittance transfers to consumers using their retail
branches and a network of agents across the United States, including
convenience stores, supermarkets, and other retail establishments where they
have installed a dedicated computer or a telephone that can be used to send
remittance transfers using Respondents’ services.

As of October 28, 2013, the effective date of the Remittance Rule,
Respondents have been subject to the requirements of EFT A and the
Remittance Rule.

Respondents were aware of the Remittance Rule and made operational
changes after the Rule became effective but did not fully comply with some

of the disclosure and error-resolution requirements.
16.

ARIA PPPS AAA a wy a et Nee IN mo NS
SOHO REE RAT Macument 7 Filed OR F347 /8O8G Rare § of 33
ae WPT Ne Pe tot RP REESE PRAGA § Sree PU CeAaee oF Lab aha

From 2013 until at least 2019, Respondents engaged in the acts and practices
in providing remittance transfers as described below.

Respondents violated §§ 1005.33(c)(1) and (c)(2) (ii) (B)
by failing to notify some consumers of the remedies available for

correcting errors and providing those consumers with the appropriate remedy.

17.

18.

19.

Section 1005.33(c)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires remittance-transfer
providers to investigate promptly a notice of error received from a sender
and to determine whether an error occurred within 90 days of receiving
notice. Section 1005.33(c)(1) further requires remittance-transfer providers
to “report the results to the sender, including notice of any remedies
available for correcting any error that the provider determines has occurred,
within three business days after completing its investigation.”

Among other things, it is generally an error if a remittance-transfer provider
fails to make funds available to a designated recipient by the date of
availability stated in the receipt or combined disclosure that the provider
provides to a sender under § 1005.33(a)(1)(iv).

Section 1005.33(c)(2)(11)(B) of the Remittance Rule requires a remittance-
transfer provider to refund fees imposed on a remittance transfer to a sender
following an assertion of an error when the provider commits an error under
§ 1005.33(a)(1 )(iv) by failing to make funds available to the designated

recipient by the date of availability in the receipt or combined disclosure.
20.

21.

22.

23.

AA PY SRP eT, CA ot m . Lot reek PALE PR ERP PAN Xs co .
AHO Peres Anas Phaciipaant 1 Mite AS P24 PION Maria O eyt 2
wk be PSR Ce Rete ne 5 Rose PGP eee ye : rebel Lea SS foe pois wit tin ef tue *%
She ad BP et NE ae Bat Ae Re ed PoE Lek bP ea : Gtk ter LOSE

When Respondents committed errors under § 1005.33(a)(1 \1v), they
refunded fees only to senders who, as a remedy, requested that Respondents
cancel the transaction. Respondents did not refund fees to senders who, as a
remedy, requested that Respondents resend the transaction.

Between 2015 and 2019, for senders who requested that Respondents resend
the remittance transfer as a remedy, Respondents did not adequately notify
those consumers of the available remedies or refund fees imposed on the
remittance transfer in a total of more than 9,280 instances and resulting in a
total cost to consumers of approximately $99,944.95.

Respondents therefore violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.33(c)(1) and (c)(2)(11)(B).

Respondents violated §§ 1005.33(c)(1) and (d)(1)
by failing to properly report the results of error investigations

and failing to notify consumers of their rights after error investigations.

Section 1005.33(c)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires remittance-transfer
providers to investigate promptly a notice of error from a sender and to
determine whether an error occurred within 90 days of receiving notice.
Section 1005.33(c)(1) further requires remittance-transfer providers to
“report the results to the sender, including notice of any remedies available
for correcting any error that the provider determines has occurred, within

three business days after completing its investigation.”
24.

25.

26.

ARAA Rr AKA a PA ee ek et Nee IN me
SOHO REE RAT Macument 7 Filed OR F347 /8O8G Pars G of 33
ae We Pe Pur Ro Ra RR Rd P RRA Meh as be on Nt PO CAMS a ASE ata

Section 1005.33(d)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires a remittance-transfer
provider to follow certain procedures if it determines that no error occurred
or if a different error occurred than the error identified in the sender’s notice
of error. Specifically, this section requires the remittance-transfer provider to
give the sender a written explanation of the provider’s findings regarding the
notice of error and to note the sender’s right to request the documents on
which the remittance-transfer provider relied in making its determination.
From the effective date of the Remittance Rule through at least 2019, it was
Respondents’ practice to inform consumers about complaint-investigation
results only by telephone, even if Respondents found no error or a different
error from the one alleged.

Respondents therefore violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.33(c)(1) and (d)(1).

Respondents violated § 1005. 33(g)(1) by failing to develop
and maintain written policies and procedures designed to ensure

compliance with certain error-resolution requirements of the Remittance Rule.

27.

28.

Section 1005.33(g)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires remittance-transfer
providers to develop and maintain written policies and procedures that are
designed to ensure compliance with the Rule’s error-resolution
requirements.

From the effective date of the Remittance Rule to at least 2019,

Respondents had no written policies and procedures on the
29.

30.

31.

32.

APO PLAS AM > . og pues SP A Pee ~ ae <A
ION CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe Beane TP Af 38
Sew ke bg WA bd BA AEN Pa POPS ASQ a PP ole ANS BAF La ie

appropriate remedies for correcting “errors.” Respondents did not

fully comply with the Rule’s procedures for resolving errors.

From December 2017 to at least September 2018, Respondents’ written
policies and procedures inaccurately stated that investigation results could be
reported either orally or in writing to a consumer even in cases where the
Remittance Rule requires the provider to explain its findings in writing.
During this period, Respondents followed their written policies and
procedures, rather than the Remittance Rule’s requirements, and so did not
provide investigation results in writing where the Rule requires written
notice.

From September 2014 to November 2017, Respondents described “errors”
too narrowly in their written policies and procedures, making it likely that
following such policies and procedures would result in undercompliance
with the Rule.

Thus, between the effective date of the Remittance Rule and 2019,
Respondents’ policies and procedures were not adequately designed to
ensure compliance with §§ 1005.33(c)(1), (c)(2), or (d)(1).

Respondents therefore violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(g)(1).
33.

34.

35.

36.

PAA PR ARE RA OA ~~ . oA pansy SPT Pe ax Aw x A
SOOO Dre m Ams 4 Pree ey ceed of Clad Marea foOAgy Meese Tet at 23
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe ries PS ie ets Pe et pees of ok fee *
Bon at a PU RP Dd oN bd RPA TAS Pd PoP Ne PP eS : aA : att P tad

Sigue Corp. violated §§ 1005.31(b)(1) (i)-(iii), (v)-(vii), and (b)(2) (i)

by failing to identify the amounts, fees, and taxes associated with certain

transfers as required by the Remittance Rule.

Section 1005.31 of the Remittance Rule generally requires remittance-
transfer providers to give consumers certain disclosures. If providers choose
to provide those disclosures through prepayment disclosures and receipts, as
Respondents have since the Rule’s effective date, § 1005.31(b) governs the
content of those prepayment disclosures and receipts.

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1)() and (b)(2)(1) require that prepayment disclosures
and receipts disclose the amount that will be transferred to the designated
recipient, in the currency in which the remittance transfer is funded, using
the term “transfer amount” ora substantially similar term.

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1 (i) and (b)(2)(4) require that prepayment disclosures
and receipts disclose any fees imposed and any taxes collected on the
remittance transfer by the provider, in the currency in which the remittance
transfer is funded, using the terms “transfer fees” for fees and “transfer
taxes” for taxes, or substantially similar terms.

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1)(il) and (b)(2)(1) require that prepayment disclosures
and receipts disclose the total amount of the transaction, in the currency in
which the remittance transfer is funded, using the term “total” ora

substantially similar term.
37.

38.

39.

40.

4].

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1)(v) and (b)(2)(1) require that prepayment disclosures
and receipts disclose the amount that will be transferred to the designated
recipient, in the currency in which the funds will be received by the
designated recipient, but only if certain covered third-party fees are imposed,
using the term “transfer amount” or a substantially similar term.

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1 (vi) and (b)(2)(4) require that prepayment disclosures
and receipts disclose any covered third-party fees, in the currency in which
the funds will be received by the designated recipient, using the term “other
fees” or a substantially similar term.

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1 (vit) and (b)(2)(1) require that prepayment disclosures
and receipts disclose the amount that will be received by the designated
recipient, in the currency in which the funds will be received, using the term
“total to recipient” or a substantially similar term.

Between 2013 and 2019, some of Sigue Corp.’s prepayment disclosures and
receipts did not specify the currency of the various amounts, fees, and taxes
in amanner required by the Remittance Rule.

Sigue Corp. therefore violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.31(b)(1)(@)-(i), (v)-(vii),

and (b)(2)(1).
AMAR RP ASMA FU a, aunt A Rh FS Fe EO ek Rie, AF wT OD
POOL RCE DLA 4 Praciirnant 4 Plan ORF toe Bawa TQ af 2
Bea ME ED eX bod BaP ASP ETA eR OT SPINS WA a PP ee aN Bur Mad WS

Sigue Corp. violated §§ 1005.31(b)(1) (i) and (b)(2) (i) by issuing some disclosures

42.

43.

44.

45.

that did not use the term “transfer amount” or a substantially similar term.

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1)() and (b)(2)(1) of the Remittance Rule require that
prepayment disclosures and receipts disclose the amount that will be
transferred to the designated recipient, in the currency in which the
remittance transfer is funded, using the term “transfer amount” ora
substantially similar term.

Between 2013 and at least 2019, Sigue Corp. issued prepayment disclosures
and receipts that used the Spanish phrase “cantidad neta” and the English
translation “net before exchange” to indicate the amount to be transferred to
the designated recipient. The English phrase “net before exchange” is not
substantially similar to “transfer amount.”

Sigue Corp. therefore violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.31(b)(1)() and (b)(2)(i).

Sigue Corp. and GroupEx violated § 1005.31(b)(2)(vi) by issuing

some receipts that did not identify state-licensing and -chartering agencies.

Section 1005.31(b)(2)(vi) of the Remittance Rule requires that remittance-
transfer receipts contain a statement that “the sender can contact the State
agency that licenses or charters the remittance transfer provider. . . for
questions or complaints” and provide the relevant state agency’s name,

telephone numbers, and website.
46.

47.

48.

49.

PAM PR PAE, AG ~~ . oA pay . Re ER
SHAS OP em Ara 4 Tree isscaind 4 ilar APRA
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd SPs PEP ET BN ee

From at least 2018 to 2019, some Sigue Corp. receipts contained inaccurate
information about the state-licensing or -chartering agencies for Georgia,
Maine, Maryland, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, and Vermont,
including omitting the relevant agency’s name, telephone numbers, or
websites.

In at least 2019, some GroupEx receipts contained inaccurate information
about the state-licensing or -chartering agencies for Georgia, Maryland,
North Carolina, and Oregon, including omitting the relevant agency’s name,
telephone numbers, or websites.

Sigue Corp. and GroupEx therefore violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31(b)(2)(vi).

Respondents violated § 1005.31(c)(1) by issuing prepayment disclosures
that did not comply with the Remittance Rule’s grouping requirement.

Section 1005.31(c)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires that the following

types of information (or their equivalents) be grouped together on

99 66 99 66

prepayment disclosures: “transfer amount,” “transfer fees,” “transfer taxes,”

and “total.” This section also requires that the following types of information

(or their equivalents) be grouped together when applicable: “transfer

99 66 99 66

amount,” “other fees,” “total to recipient,” and a statement about non-

covered third-party fees.
50.

S1.

APO PPAR A ~ . oa omy SON EA ~ ar wo
ION CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe Maen TR Af
eo We TER POPU RA bd RE PAS EE 7 PORES WMO Pc AAS Pot eb ahs

From the Rule’s effective date through at least 2019, some of Respondents’

prepayment disclosures improperly grouped the term “other fees” together

99 66 99 66

with “transfer amount,” “transfer fees,” “transfer taxes,” and “total.”

Respondents therefore violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31(c)(1).

Sigue Corp. violated §§ 1005. 31(b)(1) (viii) and (b)(2) i)
by including a statement on certain prepayment disclosures and

receipts that non-covered, third-party fees may apply to a remittance transfer.

52.

53.

Sections 1005.3 1(b)(1 (vim) and (b)(2)(4) of the Remittance Rule require a
remittance-transfer provider to disclose to a sender, as applicable, a
statement indicating that non-covered, third-party fees or taxes collected on
the remittance transfer by a person other than the provider may apply to the
remittance transfer and result in the designated recipient receiving less than
the amount disclosed pursuant to § 1005.31(b)(1)(vu). A provider may
include this disclosure only if such fees or taxes do or may apply to the
transfer.

From the Rule’s effective date through at least 2019, some of Sigue Corp.’s
prepayment disclosures and receipts stated that a designated “recipient may
receive less due to taxes and additional non-covered third-party fees charged
within destination country,” or included substantially similar statements,
when non-covered, third-party fees could not be imposed on the remittance

transfer.
54.

55.

56.

NAAM RM OAM ~ . 8 pens PT Em oy ae A
SOO BER AA 4 Miners t fF Plan ORF toe Bien F2 wf RO
Bad ae MRP De WA bd BA AEN Pa POPS ASQ a PP ole oA é Lah wit

Sigue Corp. therefore violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.31(b)(1)(vii) and (b)(2)(i).

ORDER
V.

Conduct Provisions
IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 ofthe CFPA, that:
Respondents and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys
who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.31 or 1005.33.
Respondents in connection with the provision of remittance transfers must:
a. implement and maintain written policies and procedures designed to

ensure compliance with the Remittance Rule; and

b. | maintain a compliance-management system that is designed to ensure
that Respondents’ operations comply with the Remittance Rule,
including conducting training and oversight of all agents, employees,
and service providers that is designed to ensure compliance with the

Remittance Rule.
57.

58.

59.

PN PM OIE RA 2 ~ : of pay » SOP ER
SOL BPE RANA 4 Reariineant 4 Pian GRIP a fenen
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

VI.
Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 60 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must submit to the
Regional Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondents’
remittance-transfer acts and practices comply with all applicable federal
consumer-financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance
Plan). The Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum, detailed steps for
addressing each action required by this Consent Order and specific
timeframes and deadlines for implementing those steps.
The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondents to revise it. If
the Regional Director directs Respondents to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondents must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Regional Director within 30 days.
After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondents must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
60.

61.

62.

AMON POE . ~ . og a . IN A EP
ION CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa PPA Pe PP eA eA

VIL.

Role of the Board
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The Board must review all submissions (including plans, reports, programs,
policies, and procedures) required by this Consent Order prior to submission
to the Bureau.
Although this Consent Order requires Respondents to submit certain
documents for the review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the
Board will have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound
management of Respondents and for ensuring that Respondents comply with
the laws that the Bureau enforces, including federal consumer financial laws
and this Consent Order.
In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure

adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondents, the Board

must:

a. authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondents to fully
comply with the Consent Order;

b. require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of

compliance obligations; and
63.

64.

APA PR OA PR of 2 ~ : of pea y » SOP ER
SOL BPE RANA 4 Reariineant 4 Pian GRIP a fenen
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

C. require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any
material non-compliance with any failures to comply with Board

directives related to this Section.

VILL.

Order to Pay Redress
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must reserve or deposit
into a segregated deposit account an amount not less than $99,944.95
(Payment Floor), for the purpose of providing redress to Affected
Consumers as required by this Section.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must submit to the
Regional Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive written
plan for providing redress consistent with this Consent Order (Redress
Plan). The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a
determination of non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct Respondents
to revise it. If the Regional Director directs Respondents to revise the
Redress Plan, Respondents must make the revisions and resubmit the
Redress Plan to the Regional Director within 15 days. After receiving
notification that the Regional Director has made a determination of non-

objection to the Redress Plan, Respondents must implement and adhere
65.

66.

67.

PN PM OIE RA 2 ~ : of pay » SOP ER
SOL BPE RANA 4 Reariineant 4 Pian GRIP a fenen
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the
Redress Plan.

The Redress Plan must, at a minimum, identify Respondents’ method for
determining the transaction fees that must be refunded to each Affected
Consumer, comprehensive steps for locating those consumers, and specific
steps and deadlines for providing the redress to each Affected Consumer.
After completing the Redress Plan, if the amount of redress provided to
Affected Consumers is less than $99,944.95, within 30 days of the
completion of the Redress Plan, Respondents must pay to the Bureau, by
wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent, and according to the
Bureau’s wiring instructions, the difference between the amount of redress
provided to Affected Consumers and $99,944.95.

The Bureau may use these remaining funds to pay additional redress to
Affected Consumers. Ifthe Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that
additional redress is wholly or partially impracticable or otherwise
inappropriate, or if funds remain after the additional redress is completed,
the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S. Treasury as
disgorgement. Respondents will have no right to challenge any actions that

the Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.
68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

Respondents may not condition the payment of any redress to any Affected
Consumer under this Consent Order on that Affected Consumer waiving any
right.

IX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in § IV of this Consent Order, and taking into
account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondents must pay a civil
money penalty of $300,000 to the Bureau.
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) ofthe CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondents, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how

the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondents may not:
73.

ARAN SAP ANAS ~ Ld mo AP A Ie
SOO BP DLAT 4 Paciiyent 4 Pian QRIa4fanen
Sai UR ed RAPE PENSE ER gd PoPteAs Pi PP ee

a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax

benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, remmbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil money

penalty paid under this Consent Order.

To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondents may not argue that Respondents are entitled
to, nor may Respondents benefit by, any offset or reduction of any
compensatory monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action
because of the civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any
payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe court in
any Related Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of
compensatory monetary remedies imposed against Respondents based on the
civil money penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondents must, within 30
days after entry of a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the
Bureau, and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury.

Such a payment will not be considered an additional civil money penalty and
74.

75.

70.

TT,

NAAM RM OAM ~ . 8 pens re ar ry re ox me owe
ION CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe Baw BQ af 2
Bad ae MRP De WA bd BASE EAGER Yok Ae PP coe oA Bat LD ws

will not change the amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this
action.

X.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondents’ obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondents must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds
paid to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondents.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondents, unless they already have done so,
must furnish to the Bureau their taxpayer-identification numbers, which may
be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.
Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondents must notify the Regional

Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
78.

79.

PN PM OIE RA 2 ~ : of pay » SOP ER
SOL BPE RANA 4 Reariineant 4 Pian GRIP a fenen
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondents
paid or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or
classes of consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.
XI.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondents must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against any Respondent; or a change in any Respondent’s
name or address. Respondents must provide this notice, if practicable, at
least 30 days before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days
after the development.
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Respondent must:
a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and

postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to

communicate with Respondent;
80.

81.

ARAN SAP ANAS ~ Ld mo AP A Ie
SOO BP DLAT 4 Paciiyent 4 Pian QRIa4fanen
Sai UR ed RAPE PENSE ER gd PoPteAs Pi PP ee

b. identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet

addresses; and

C. describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and

sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under § 79 at least 30 days before the change or as soon as

practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days after receiving notice of non-objection to the Compliance

Plan, and again one year thereafter, Respondents must submit to the

Regional Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by the Board, sworn to under

penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondents have
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent

Order;
82.

83.

84.

AMON POE . ~ . og a . IN A EP
ION CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa PPA Pe PP eA eA

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has

complied with the Redress Plan and Compliance Plan; and

C. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under § XII,

unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must deliver a copy of
this Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as
well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.
For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondents must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in § XI, any future board members and executive officers, as well

as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
85.

86.

ARAN SAP ANAS ~ Ld mo AP A Ie
SOO BP DLAT 4 Paciiyent 4 Pian QRIa4fanen
Sai UR ed RAPE PENSE ER gd PoPteAs Pi PP ee

representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondents must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging
receipt of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic
signatures comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. §
7001 et seq., within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of
this Consent Order under this Section.
XIII.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondents must create and retain the following business records:
a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance

with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions

to the Bureau;

b. all documents and records pertaining to the Redress Plan, described in

§ VIII above;

C. templates of all prepayment disclosures, receipts, and combined

disclosures, along with records sufficient to demonstrate the dates and
87.

88.

APA PR OA PR of 2 ~ : of pansy » SOP ER
AAO Beem Awa 4 Pree ey ceed of Wiad M8 Pea Fa OoGA
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

locations in which each template was in use and the number of

consumers who received each template; and

d. all consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses

to those complaints or requests.

Respondents must make the documents identified in J 86 available to the
Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIV.

Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondents must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “In re Sigue
Corp., File No. 2020-BCFP-0011,” and send them by overnight courier or
first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by email to
Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:
Regional Director, Bureau West Region

301 Howard Street, 12th Floor
San Francisco, CA 94105
89.

90.

PN PM OIE RA 2 ~ : of pay » SOP ER
SOL BPE RANA 4 Reariineant 4 Pian GRIP a fenen
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

Cooperation with the Bureau
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondents must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity
and location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected
Consumer. Respondents must provide such information in its or its agents’
possession or control within 14 days of receiving a written request from the
Bureau.
XVI.
Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondents
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those

requirements.
91.

92.

93.

94.

SAA RS AEE PA : ~ . A puss . OR Ee
SOS BCE PLANT 4 Pocument 7 Pied ORS TfeO2O
Ba Sf tn ST et BA AEN Pa PPA Pe PP eA eA

Respondents must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements, any employee or other person affiliated with Respondents who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XVII.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondents may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.
The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Regional

Director must be in writing.
95.

96.

APA PR OA PR of 2 ~ : of pansy » SOP ER
AAO Beem Awa 4 Pree ey ceed of Wiad M8 Pea Fa OoGA
ee eh babe ome bev at de bd POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTBAP YE PAE SOG wi ee
than Sad tli at Rend Sal? te AEN Ed PoP PP PT eo eS

XVIII.
Administrative Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondents, except as
described in J 96. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this
Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any other person or

governmental agency from taking any action against Respondents.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondents from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in § IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondents and
their affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice
of violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the

Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

NAAM RM OAM ~ . 8 pens PT Em oy rr ~ rye
ION CE RAGA Phevesirpvcant 4 Plan ORF toe Mey 2 ak OR
Bad ae MRP De WA bd BASE EAGER Yok Ae PP coe oA fn LP

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except
to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated
agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should any Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations
that are subject to this Consent Order, that Respondent must, as a condition
of sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply
with all applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under §1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce

this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
 

102.

103.

2020-BCFP-0011 Document’ Filed 08/31/2020 Page 33 of 33

Respondents wherever Respondents may be found and Respondents may not

contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondents.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondents or their Board, officers, or employees to

violate any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this¢7 day of August, 2020.

i

2
>

 

 

Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

35
