Release Number 7167-15

 

April 30, 2015

CFTC Charges North Carolina Resident Barry C. Taylor and His Companies with Commodity
Pool Fraud in a Multi-Million Dollar Fraudulent Forex Scheme and with Registration
Violations

Federal Court Enters Emergency Order Freezing Defendants’ Assets and
Protecting Books and Records

Defendants’ Fraudulent Scheme Allegedly Solicited over $2.4 Million
from Approximately 24 Members of the Public

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) filed a civil enforcement Complaint against
Barry C. Taylor of Franklin, North Carolina, charging him with operating a multi-million dollar fraudulent scheme
through his firms, OTC Investments LLC and Forex Currency Trade Advisors, LLC (collectively, Defendants). On
April 22, 2015, Judge Martin Reidinger of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina, Asheville
Division entered an emergency restraining Order freezing Defendants’ assets and prohibiting the destruction or
concealment of their books and records. None of the Defendants has ever been registered with the CFTC, as is required.

The CFTC Complaint, filed under seal on April 21, 2015, alleges that from at least August 1, 2011 through the present,
the Defendants engaged in a fraudulent scheme that solicited more than $2.4 million from approximately 24 members of
the public in North Carolina and other states within the United States and in Canada to participate in a commodity pool
that traded leveraged or margined retail off-exchange foreign currency (forex) contracts.

The Complaint further alleges that Taylor misappropriated pool participant funds for personal and other business uses,
and to conceal his fraudulent scheme and misappropriation. Also, as alleged, Taylor issued or caused to be issued false
account statements to one or more pool participants to cover up his fraudulent scheme.

Taylor, among other things, allegedly made material misrepresentations and omissions to commodity pool participants
that 1) Defendants were engaged in profitable forex trading and 2) failed to disclose that Defendants traded only a
portion of pool participant funds and misappropriated the remainder through a combination of personal expenditures and
partial distributions of diminishing commodity pool funds to pool participants to lull and deceive them.

The Complaint also charges that the Defendants used pool participant funds to pay purported trading profits and
supposedly returned pool participants’ principal in the manner of a Ponzi scheme.

In its continuing litigation, the CFTC seeks a return of ill-gotten gains, restitution, civil monetary penalties, trading and
registration bans, and permanent injunctions against further violations of the federal commodities laws, as charged.

The CFTC cautions victims that restitution orders may not result in the recovery of money lost because the wrongdoers
may not have sufficient funds or assets. The CFTC will continue to fight vigorously for the protection of customers and to
ensure the wrongdoers are held accountable.

The CFTC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Western District of North Carolina and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are JonMarc P. Buffa, Peter M. Haas, Patricia A.
Gomersall, Tashieka Taylor, and Paul G. Hayeck.

* OK KK OK XK

CFTC’s Foreign Currency (Forex) Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Foreign Currency Trading (Forex) Fraud Advisory, which states that the CFTC has witnessed a sharp rise in Forex trading
scams in recent years and helps customers identify this potential fraud.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088
Last Updated: April 30, 2015
