IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

SHERMAN DIVISION
§
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE §
COMMISION, §
§
Plaintiff, §
§
VS. § CIVIL ACTION NO.:
§
ORTHOFIX INTERNATIONAL N.V., §
§
Defendant. §
§

COMPLAINT FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission’’) alleges as follows:

SUMMARY

1. This matter involves violations of the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Defendant Orthofix International
N.V. (“Orthofix’’), an orthopedic medical device company. From 2003 to 2010, Orthofix’s
wholly-owned Mexican subsidiary, Promeca S.A. de C.V. (“Promeca’’), repeatedly paid bribes
totaling approximately 317,000 to Mexican officials in order to obtain and retain sales contracts
from Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (“IMSS”), the Mexican government-owned
healthcare and social services institution. Promeca employees referred to these payments as
“chocolates.”

2. These improper payments, falsely recorded on the company’s books as cash
advances to Promeca executives or training and promotions expenses, generated approximately

$8.7 million in gross revenues for Orthofix and resulted in illicit net profits of about $4.9 million.
3. Orthofix violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act’) by failing to accurately record these improper payments on its books and
records. Orthofix violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by failing to maintain an

adequate system of internal accounting controls to detect and prevent the illicit payments.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

4. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d) and 27 of
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d) and 78aa]. Defendant Orthofix’s common stock is
traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and Orthofix has, directly or indirectly, made use of
the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a
national securities exchange in connection with the transactions, acts, practices and courses of
business alleged in this Complaint.

5. Venue is proper in this district pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15
U.S.C. § 78aa], because Orthofix’s corporate administrative offices are located in Lewisville,
Texas.

DEFENDANT

6. Orthofix International N.V. is a limited liability company formed under the laws

 

of Netherlands Antilles. Its corporate administrative offices are located in Lewisville, Texas.
Orthofix’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12 of the
Exchange Act and is traded on the Nasdag Global Select Market under the symbol “OFIX.”

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY

7. Promeca S.A. de C.V. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Orthofix headquartered in

 

Mexico City, Mexico.
FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

Background

8. Orthofix is an orthopedic medical device company that provides surgical and non-
surgical medical products for various market sectors, such as spine, orthopedics, and sports
medicine. The company distributes its products both domestically in the United States and
internationally in multiple countries.

9. During 2003 to 2010, Promeca, Orthofix’s wholly-owned subsidiary based in
Mexico City, sold Orthofix’s products to government and private hospitals in Mexico.
Approximately 60% of Promeca’s revenues came from IMSS, the Mexican government-owned
medical care and social services provider.

10. During the relevant time, Promeca was subject to Orthofix’s control, including
the implementation of internal controls at Promeca. Additionally, the financial results of
Promeca were a component of the consolidated financial statements included in Orthofix’s
filings with the Commission.

The Bribery Scheme

11. From at least 2003 to 2007, Orthofix’s subsidiary, Promeca, regularly paid bribes
to IMSS hospital employees in the form of cash and/or gifts, in order to secure sales contracts
from IMSS hospitals.

12. The bribe amounts, referred to internally at Promeca as “chocolates,” ranged from
5% to 10% of the collected sales for the hospital in question.

13. In order to obtain cash for the illicit payments, Promeca executives wrote checks
to themselves, which they justified as cash advances.

14. They later submitted falsified receipts for imaginary expenses including meals

and new car tires, which were accounted for in Promeca’s books and records. As the bribes

3
increased, it became difficult for Promeca executives to invent new receipts to justify the
advances. Eventually, the bribes became too large, forcing the Promeca executives to devise
another justification methodology, and hence they began falsely accounting for the payments as
promotional and training expenses.

15. Because of the bribery scheme, Promeca’s training and promotional expenses
were significantly over budget. In one instance, Orthofix launched an inquiry into these
expenses, but did not control them.

16. In 2008, IMSS began purchasing medical products under a new national tender
system, where a special IMSS committee, rather than the individual hospitals, selected the
winning bidder who would cover IMSS nationally. Promeca then established a new system of
bribery to ensure that it was awarded the business under the national tender system. To achieve
this, Promeca made payments to three front companies, which were controlled by certain IMSS
officials. Promeca won the national tenders for 2008 and 2009 and paid the front companies 5%
and 3%, respectively, of the collected sales from those tenders. The front companies concealed
these bribes by submitting false invoices, characterizing them as training and other promotional
expenses that Promeca never received. Promeca falsely recorded the bribes on its books as
payments for training courses, meetings and congresses, and promotional costs.

17. In addition, between 2003 and 2010, Promeca expended approximately $80,050
on gifts and travel packages, some of which were intended to corruptly influence IMSS
employees in order to retain their business. The various gifts included vacation packages,
televisions, laptops, appliances, and in one case, the lease of a Volkswagen Jetta. These
payments were falsely accounted for in Promeca’s books and records as promotional and training

expenses.
18. In all, the improper payments, totaling about $317,000, generated approximately
$8.7 million in gross revenues and resulted in illicit net profits to Orthofix of about $4.9 million.

Orthofix’s Remedial Measures to Prevent Corrupt Payments

19. Prior to the discovery of the bribery schemes, Orthofix did not have an effective
FCPA compliance policy or FCPA-related training.

20. Although Orthofix disseminated some code of ethics and anti-bribery training to
Promeca, the materials were only in English, and it was unlikely that Promeca employees
understood them as most Promeca employees spoke minimal English.

21. Additionally, even though Promeca’s training and promotional expenses, that
included the improper payments, were often over budget, Orthofix did very little to investigate or
diminish the excessive spending.

22. Upon discovery of the bribe payments through a Promeca executive, Orthofix
immediately self-reported the matter to the Commission staff, and conducted an internal
investigation.

23. Orthofix also implemented significant remedial measures. Specifically, it
terminated the Promeca executives that orchestrated the bribery scheme, wound up Promeca’s
operations, enhanced its overall FCPA compliance program with mandatory annual FCPA
training for all employees and third-party agents, expanded internal audit functions, and
implemented other internal control measures.

Orthofix’s Violations

24. Orthofix’s subsidiary characterized their payments to IMSS as cash advances or
training and promotional expenses even though those payments were used as bribes. Orthofix’s

books and records did not reflect the true nature of those payments.
25. Orthofix failed to implement adequate internal controls to prevent the bribery or
to ensure that transaction were properly recorded. Orthofix failed to implement an FCPA
compliance and training program commensurate with the extent of its international operations
and particularly its ownership of Promeca, a subsidiary that had substantial sales to government-
owned enterprises. Further, even though Orthofix knew that Promeca’s training and promotional
expenses were often over budget, it did nothing to act on the red flag.

FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Violation of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A)
[15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]

26. The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs | through
25.

27. As described above, Orthofix, through its subsidiary, failed to keep books,
records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions
and disposition of its assets.

28. By reason of the foregoing, Orthofix violated, and unless enjoined will continue
to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Violations of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B)
[15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)]

29. The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs | through
28.

30. As described above, Orthofix failed to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (1) transactions were

executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (11)
transactions were recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in

conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such

statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for its assets.

31.

By reason of the foregoing, Orthofix violated, and unless enjoined will continue

to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court enter a final

judgment:

A.

Dated:

Permanently restraining and enjoining Orthofix from violating Sections

13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78(b)(2)(A), and

78m(b)(2)(B)I;

Ordering Orthofix to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a result of

its illegal conduct, with prejudgment interest; and

Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

July 10, 2012
Fort Worth, Texas

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Toby M. Galloway

Toby Galloway

Securities and Exchange Commission
801 Cherry Street, Unit 18, Suite 1900
Fort Worth, Texas 76102-6882
Telephone: (817) 978-6447
Facsimile: (817) 978-4927

 

John W. Berry (New York State Bar No. 2972610)
Attorneys for Plaintiff

Securities and Exchange Commission

5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11th Floor

Los Angeles, California 90036-3648

(323) 965-3890 (telephone)

(323) 965-3908 (facsimile)

berry] @sec.gov (email)

7
