Case 2:)18-cv-G0598-CW Bocument2 Filed Q7/27/18 Page 1 of 15

ae

Timothy J. Mulreany
Chief Trial Attorney
tmulreany@cftc.gov
Maryland Bar No.: 8812160123
Attomey for Plaintiff
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
1155 21st Street, N.W.
Washington, DC
(202) 418-5306
IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF UTAH, CENTRAL DIVISION

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING

COMMISSION,
Case No.; 2:18-cv-00598
Plaintiff,
COMPLAINT FOR PERMANENT
v INJUNCTION, CIVIL MONETARY
: PENALTIES, AND OTHER ANCILLARY
JAFX, LTD. aka JAFX, EOOD, | AND EQUITABLE RELIEF
Defendant.

 

Plaintiff, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”), by its

attorneys, alleges as follows:

I. SUMMARY

L. Beginning in at least September 2016 and continuing to the present (the “relevant
period”), JAFX, Ltd. aka JAFX, EOOD (“JAFX” or “Defendant’”), an offshore company
claiming to operate from St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Bulgaria, using the website
http://www. JAFX.com (“website”) and videos on http://www. YouTube.com (“YouTube”), is, or
has offered to be, the counterparty to leveraged, retail foreign currency (‘‘forex’’) transactions for

customers located in the United States who are not Eligible Contract Participants (“ECPs’’),
 

without being registered with the Commission as a retail foreign exchange dealer (“RFED”), in
violations of Section 2(c)(2)(C)(iii)(1)(aa) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act or CEA”),
7USS.C. § 2(c)(2)(C)(11)(D(aa) (2012), and Commission Regulation (“Regulation”) 5.3(a)(6)(i),
17 C.F.R. § 5.3(a)(6)(@) (2017).

2. Throughout the relevant period, each time JAFX opened an account for a retail
forex customer to engage in retail forex transactions, it failed to provide each retail forex
customer with a written “Risk Disclosure Statement,” in violations of Regulation 5.5, 17 C.F.R. §
5.5 (2017). |

3. By virtue of this conduct and the further conduct described herein, JAFX has
engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in acts and practices in violations of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§§ 1-26 (2012), and the Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pts. 1-190 (2017).

4. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), and
7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(C), the Commission brings this action to enjoin JAFX’s unlawful acts and
practices and to compel its compliance with the Act and the Regulations and to further enjoin
JAFX from engaging in certain commodity or forex-related activity, including soliciting or
accepting orders from U.S. customers and offering to be the counterparty to customers’ forex
transactions without appropriate registration with the Commission and opening accounts without
the required disclosure statements.

5. In addition, the Commission seeks civil monetary penalties and remedial ancillary
relief including, but not limited to, trading and registration bans, restitution, disgorgement,
rescission, pre- and post-judgment interest, and such other relief as the Court may deem

necessary and appropriate.
 

Case 2:18-cv-00598-COW Document ec OF Page 3 of 15
6. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, JAFX likely will continue to engage

in the acts and practices alleged in this Complaint and similar acts and practices, as more fully

described below.

I. JURISDICTION AND VENUE

7. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under 28 U.S.C. § 1331 (2012)
(federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. § 1345 (2012) (providing that U.S. district courts
have original jurisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by any agency
expressly authorized to sue by Act of Congress). In addition, Section 6c(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§ 13a-1(a) (2012), provides that the Commission may bring actions for injunctive relief or
enforce compliance with the Act in the proper district court of the United States whenever it shall
appear to the Commission that such person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in
any act or practice constituting a violations of any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or
order thereunder.

8. The Commission also has jurisdiction over the conduct and transactions at issue in
this case pursuant to Sections 2(c)(2)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 2(c)(2)(C) (2012).

9. Venue properly lies with the Court pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(e) because JAFX
transacts business in this District and certain transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business

alleged in this Complaint occurred, are occurring, and/or are about to occur within this District.

Ill. PARTIES

10. Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent federal
regulatory agency charged by Congress with the administration and enforcement of the Act and

the Regulations.
 

11. Defendant JAFX, Ltd. aka JAFX EOOD, is a Bulgarian company licensed to do
business in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. It uses as a business address The Financial Services
Centre, Stoney Ground, Kingstown, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and also purports to have a
business address in Bulgaria at Sofia 1463, Triaditsa District, Prestige Business Center, 49
Patriarch Evtimii, 4th floor, Bulgaria. JAFX has never been registered with the Commission in
any capacity.

IV. STATUTORY BACKGROUND

12. — Section 2(c)(2)(C)(iii) (D(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(C)Gii)(D(aa) (2012),
prohibits any person, unless registered with the Commission in such capacity as the Commission
by rule, regulation, or order shall determine, from soliciting and accepting from retail customers
orders for transactions in forex offered on a leveraged or margined basis that do not result in
actual delivery and do not create an enforceable obligation to deliver between a seller and a
buyer who have the ability to deliver and accept delivery.

13. | The Act defines an ECP, in relevant part, as an individual with total assets in
excess of: (i) $10 million, or (ii) $5 million and who enters the transaction “to manage the risk
associated with an asset owned or liability incurred, or reasonably likely to be owned or incurred,
by the individual.” CEA §1a(18)(xi), 7 U.S.C. § 1a(18)(xi). Individuals who do not meet these
criteria are non-ECPs. JAFX’s customers are typically non-ECPs—1.e., retail customers.

14. The Regulations define an RFED, in relevant part, as any person that is, or offers
to be, the counterparty to a retail forex transaction. Regulation 5.1(h)(1), 17 C.F.R. § 5.1(h)(1)

(2017).
Case 2:18-cv-00598-CW Document 2 Flecd Ov/27/18 Page 5 of LS
15. The Regulations define a retail forex transaction as any account, agreement,

contract or transaction described in 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(B), or § 2(c)(2)(C). 17 C.F.R. § 5.1(m).
A retail forex transaction does not include an account, agreement, contract or transaction in forex
that is a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an option thereon) that is

executed, traded on or otherwise subject to the rules of a contract market designated pursuant to

Section 5(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 5(a) (2012). Jd.

V. FACTS
A. JAFX’s Operations
16. | JAFX solicits orders from U.S. customers who are not ECPs to open leveraged,

retail forex trading accounts through JAFX’s website as well as videos on YouTube, where
JAFX is, or offers to be, the counterparty to each leveraged, retail forex transaction. Customers
are directed to open trading accounts by submitting an online account application through
JAFX’s website. JAFX encourages customers to access and trade their accounts via a mobile
application (“app”), stating on the JAFX website: “Clients are able to access all trading tools on
the go with our 10S/Android mobile trading app. Trade anywhere and anytime.” While the
website contains language noting that the solicitations are “not directed at U.S. customers,” there
is nothing in the online account application stating JAFX does not accept U.S. customers, nor are
U.S. customers prevented from opening accounts. The application process contains a drop-down
menu of companies from which JAFX accepts customers; the first country listed is the “United
States.”” U.S. customers may open an account with JAFX with as little as $100 USD.

17. JAFX’s online account application does not seek any information about

prospective customers’ ability to send or receive actual delivery of forex or customers’ business
 

need for forex. JAFX’s online account application does not inquire as to whether a prospective
customer is an ECP or about a prospective customer’s savings and investments. The online
account application does not inquire if a prospective customer has assets in excess of $5 million,
nor does it inquire if the prospective customer is seeking to trade forex to manage the risk of an
asset or liability already owned, or about to be owned, by the prospective customer.

18. During the relevant period, JAFX solicited and accepted funds and orders from
non-ECP, U.S. resident customers to trade leveraged forex contracts, for which JAFX acted as
the counterparty to each retail forex transaction. While JAFX’s website states, in part: “All
information on this website is not directed towards soliciting citizens or residents of the United
States and the United Kingdom,” this is nothing more than a poor attempt to evade U.S.
regulatory requirements. That JAFX actively seeks U.S. customers is demonstrated by other
aspects of its website which provides a “U.S. toll free number,” and the fact that it has accepted
thousands of applications from U.S. customers. In addition, the “frequently asked questions” or
FAQ section of the website does not list the U.S. under the section titled: ‘““What countries are
restricted from using JAFX.”

19. In addition, nowhere on JAFX’s online application does it solicit information
concerning whether prospective customers are ECPs, and it fails to inquire whether a prospective
customer has the ability or the business need to accept foreign currency into his or her bank
account. In the FAQ portion its website, JAFX advises customers:

Once your documents are fully verified it is time to fund your
landing account. A JAFX landing account is where you can store
funds before you distribute them into your trading accounts. Funds

in the landing account cannot be traded unless you move them to a
trading account.
Case 2:18-cv-00598-OQW Document2 Fed Ov/27fls Page 7 of is
20. | JAFX permits U.S. and international customers to fund forex trading accounts

using wire transfer, Skrill,' credit/debit cards, and/or Bitcoin. To create a trading account,
prospective customers are directed to “click on the ‘My Accounts’ tab in the JAFX Portal and
click on ‘Add USD Account’.” Moreover, the default setting for JAFX’s funding trading
accounts is United States dollars (“USD”).

21. Once a customer has funded a trading account, JAFX allows customers to link
their trading account to as many accounts traded by third-party account managers as the
customer desires:

Once you have successfully deposited into your ‘Landing Account’
you will eligible to create as many managed accounts as you wish.
A JAFX managed account will give you the ability to follow JAFX
Third Parties. You will need to create a separate Managed
Account for each EA or third party that you wish to follow giving
you the ability to spread your funds across programs.

22. JAFX’s online account application does not require that the customer state
whether or not the customer has the ability to deliver and accept delivery in connection with the
customer’s lines of business, which is one of the prerequisites to qualify as an ECP. In fact, with
leveraged, retail forex accounts being offered for as little as $100 USD, JAFX is specifically
soliciting customers that typically could never qualify as ECPs.

23. | JAFX neither advises actual and prospective U.S. customers in its solicitations to
that JAFX is required to be registered with the Commission as an RFED, nor does JAFX advise

actual and prospective customers that it is acting unlawfully by operating as a RFED in the U.S.

without such registration. In the FAQ section of the website, JAFX appears to acknowledge its

 

' An online payment and money transfer service offering, inter alia, international money transfers. See
www.skrill.com.
unlawful conduct by stating: “JAFX is currently not regulated. Regulation takes a very long
time to setup and we are in the process of applying for regulation.” As of the date of the filing of
this Complaint, JAFX has not filed for registration with the Commission.

24. JAFX determines the maximum and minimum trade size for all trades it offers to
customers, and determines the amount of leverage it offers customers. JAFX advises its
customers in the FAQ section of its website that: “The minimum trade size is 0.01 Lot” and
“The maximum trade size of (sic) 1,000 Lots.” JAFX further advises customers under the FAQ
section of its website titled, “What is the maximum leverage JAFX offers?,” that the maximum
leverage JAFX offers clients is 1:500. This means that a customer can increase its trading
position by buying or selling up to 500 times the amount of funds the customer invested. Thus,
for example, a JAFX customer may trade up to $500,000 notional value in foreign currencies
with a $1,000 deposit, and a customer with $10,000 invested may trade up to $5,000,000 in
foreign currencies. This high degree of leverage means that even a small price movement can
produce large losses in relation to the customer’s initial deposit and can result in customers
rapidly losing their funds and being unable to ever recover from a losing trade.

25. | JAFX’s forex contracts neither result in delivery within two days nor create an
enforceable obligation to deliver between a seller and a buyer who have the ability to deliver and
accept delivery, respectively, in connection with their lines of business. Rather, these forex
contracts are ultimately offset without anyone making or taking delivery of actual currency (or
facing an obligation to do so).

26. Each of the retail forex transactions offered by JAFX are the type of accounts,

agreements, contracts or transactions described in Section 2(c)(2)(B) or 2(c)(2)(C) of the Act,
 

7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(B), (C) (2012). None of the transactions in forex offered by JAFX is a
contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an option thereon) that is executed, traded
on or otherwise subject to the rules of a contract market designated pursuant to Section 5(a) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 5(a) (2012). Therefore, each transaction offered by JAFX is a retail forex
transaction.

27. JAFX’s “‘terms and conditions,” which are set forth in its website, further
confirms that JAFX agrees to act as an RFED by agreeing to “provide services to Customer in
connection with the purchase and sale of over-the counter margin based [forex] trading
contracts” and by noting that “Customer hereby acknowledges and agrees that JAFX may act as
the counterparty to Customer for any trade entered for the undersigned’s Account.” Thus, JAFX
is an RFED, and has been acting as an RFED, because it is, and has offered to be, the
counterparty to U.S. customers’ retail forex transactions.

28. JAFX is not exempt from the requirement to register with the Commission as an
RFED.

B. Mandatory Disclosure Statement to Retail Forex Customers
29. Regulation 5.5, 17 C.F.R. § 5.5 (2017), prohibits RFEDs from opening a retail
forex account unless they first furnish customers with a written disclosure statement that
provides certain mandated information specified in 17 C.F.R. § 5.5 concerning forex trading
and receive back from the customer a signed acknowledgment that the customer received and
understood the disclosure statement.
30. Atno time during the relevant period has JAFX provided this disclosure statement

to its U.S. retail forex customers.
Mase 2:18-cv-00598-CQW¥ Document 2 Filed 07/27/18 Page 1D af 15

VI. STATUTORY AND REGULATORY violations
COUNT ONE
Operating as an Unregistered Foreign Exchange Dealer in
violations OF SECTION 2(c)(2)(C)(iii)(D(aa) OF THE ACT, 7 U.S.C.
§ 2(c)(2)(C) ii) (aa) (2012), AND REGULATION 5.3(a)(6)(i),
17 C.F.R. § 5.3(a)(6)(B) (2017)

31. The allegations set forth in the foregoing paragraphs are re-alleged and
incorporated herein.

32. Section 2(c)(2)(C)(iii)(D(aa) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(C) (ii) (D(aa) (2012),
prohibits any person or entity from soliciting or accepting from non-ECPs orders for leveraged or
margined forex transactions if such person or entity is not registered in such capacity as the
Commission shall determine.

33. Pursuant to Regulation 5.3(a)(6)(i), 17 C.F.R. § 5.3(a)(6)(i) (2017), persons or
entities who offer to be or are the counterparty to leveraged or margined forex transactions with
U.S. customers who are non-ECPs, are required to be registered with the Commission as retail
foreign exchange dealers.

34. | Throughout the relevant period, JAFX solicited or accepted orders from U.S.
resident non-ECPs in connection with leveraged or margined forex transactions and is or offers
to be the counterparty to the forex transactions. JAFX engages in this conduct without being
registered as an RFED. By this conduct, JAFX is violating 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(C)(1)(D(aa) and
17 C.F.R. § 5.3(a)(6)(i).

35. Each day that JAFX engaged in this conduct since at least September 1, 2016, to

the present is alleged as a separate and distinct violations of 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(C)(ii)()(aa) and

17 CE.R. § 5.3(a)(6)(i).

-10-
   

COUNT TWO

Failure To Provide Disclosure Statement in
violations OF COMMISSION REGULATION 5.5, 17 C.F.R. § 5.5 (2017)

36. The allegations set forth in the foregoing paragraphs are re-alleged and
incorporated herein.

37... Regulation 5.5, 17 C.F.R. § 5.5 (2017), prohibits RFEDs from opening any forex
account for retail customer unless the RFED first provides the customer with a written disclosure
statement that includes the following information: -

(a) for each of the most recent four calendar quarters during which the
counterparty maintained retail forex acounts:

(i) the total number of non-discretionary retail forex customer
accounts maintained by the retail foreign exchange dealer;

(ii) the percentage of accounts that were profitable during the equarter;
and

(iii) the percentage of such accounts that were not profitable during the
quarter.

(b) a Risk Disclosure Statement warning of the financial losses that can inccur
using leverage, conflicts of interests and other risks. Specifically, RFEDs
must disclose in writing, in all capital letters, that:

(i) the RFED’s trading is not on a regulated market or exchange and
customers’ funds have no regulatory protection;

(ii) because of leverage and other risks, customers can rapidly lose all
of their funds;

(ili) | the RFED, if serving as the counterparty, has a direct financial
conflict of interest with the customer because when the customer
loses money trading, the counterparty dealer is making money on
such trades;

(iv) | the RFED may commingle customers’ funds with its own
operating funds or use them for other purposes; and

-|]-
   

(v) in the event that the RFED becomes bankrupt, funds the dealer is
holding for customers, in addition to funds owed to customers
whether or not any assets are maintained in separate deposit
accounts by the dealer, may be treated as an unsecured creditor’s
claim.

38. 17 C.F.R. § 5.5 also requires that the RFED receives back from the retail forex
customer a signed and dated acknowledgement that thé customer received and understood the
disclosure statement.

39. JAFX did not provide its U.S. retail forex customers with a disclosure statement
that comports with these requirements. Therefore, JAFX violated, and continues to violate
17 C.F.R. § 5.5, each time it accepts a U.S. customer.

40. Each retail forex account that JAFX opened during the Relevant Period without
providing customers with a written disclosure statement that includes the information required by

17 C.F.R. § 5.5 is alleged as a separate and distinct violations of 17 C.F.R. § 5.5.

VU.

RELIEF REQUESTED
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court, as

authorized by Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), and pursuant to its own equitable
powers, enter:

A. A finding that Defendant violated Section 2(c)(2)(C)(iii)(D(aa) of the Act,
7TUS.C. § 2(c)(2)(C)ii)(D (aa) (2012), and Regulations 5.3(a)(6)(i) and 5.5, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 5.3(a)(6)(i), 5.5 (2017);

B. An order of permanent injunction enjoining Defendant and any other person or

entity associated with it, including but not limited to affiliates, agents, servants, employees,

~[2-
   

assigns, attorneys and all persons in active concert or participation with Defendant, including any

successor thereof, from:

ii.

iii.

iv.

vi.

Vii.

Engaging, directly or indirectly, in conduct in violations of 7 U.S.C. §
2(c)(2)(C) (Gui) (D(aa, and 17 C.F.R. §§ 5.3(a)(6)(i), 5.5 (2017);

Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012));

Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that
term is defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (2017, as amended by
83 Fed. Reg. 7979, 7980 (Feb. 23, 2018)), for their own personal
account(s) or for any account in which Defendants have a direct or indirect
interest;

Having any commodity interests traded on Defendant’s behalf;
Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or
entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account
involving commodity interests;

Soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the
purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission, except
as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2017);

and/or

-13-
   

viii. Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a),
17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a) (2017)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any
person (as that term is defined in 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)), registered, exempted
from registration, or required to be registered with the Commission
(except as provided for in 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2017));

C. An order directing Defendant to pay a civil monetary penalty, to be assessed by
the Court, in an amount not to exceed the penalty prescribed by Section 6c(d)(1) of the Act,
TUS.C. § 13a-1(4)(1) (2012), as adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties
Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 584 (2015), title
VII, Section 701, see Regulation 143.8, 17 C.F.R. § 143.8 (2018), for each violations of the Act
and Regulations, as described herein;

D. An order directing Defendant, as well as any successors thereof, to disgorge,
pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, all benefits received including, but not
limited to, trading profits, revenues, salaries, commissions, fees, or loans derived directly or
indirectly from acts or practices which constitute violations of the Act and Regulations, as
described herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from the date of such violations;

E. An order directing Defendant, as well as any successors thereof, to make full
restitution, pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, to every customer and investor
whose funds Defendant received, or caused another person or entity to receive, as a result of the
acts and practices constituting violations of the Act and Regulations, as described herein, and

pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from the date of such violations;

~]4-
Mase 2:18-cv-00598-CW Document 2 Filed O7/27/18 Page 15 of 15

F. An order directing Defendant, as well as any successors thereof, to rescind,
pursuant to such procedure as the Court may order, all contracts and agreements, whether
express or implied, entered into between, with, or among Defendant and any customer or
investor whose funds were received by Defendant as a result of the acts and practices which
constituted violations of the Act and the Regulations, as described herein;

G. An order directing that Defendant, and any successors thereof, make an
accounting to the Court of all of its assets and liabilities, together with all funds it received from
and paid to investors and other persons in connection with commodity transactions and all
disbursements for any purpose whatsoever of funds received from commodity transactions,
including salaries, commissions, interest, fees, loans, and other disbursement of money or
property of any kind during the relevant period to the date of such accounting;

H. An order requiring Defendant and any successors thereof to pay costs and fees as

permitted by 28 U.S.C. §§ 1920 and 2412(a)(2) (2012); and,

I. An order providing such other and further relief as the Court deems proper.
Dated: July27 2018 Respectfully submitted,
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION

/s/ Timothy J. Mulreany
Timothy J. Mulreany

Chief Trial Attorney

Maryland Bar No.: 8812160123
tmulreany@cftc.gov

Attorney for Plaintiff

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
1155 21st Street, N.W.

Washington, DC

(202) 418-5306

(202) 418-5538 (fax)

-15-
