cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Mortgage Companies to
Address Deceptive Loan Advertisements Sent to Servicemembers and Veterans

JUL 24, 2020

Washington, D.C. - Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued
consent orders against Sovereign Lending Group, Inc. (Sovereign) and Prime Choice
Funding, Inc. (Prime Choice). Sovereign is a California corporation that is licensed as a
mortgage broker or lender in about 44 states and the District of Columbia. Prime Choice is
a California corporation that is licensed as a mortgage broker or lender in about 35 states
and the District of Columbia. Both companies offer and provide mortgage loans
guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Their principal means
of advertising VA-guaranteed loans is through direct-mail advertisements sent primarily to
United States military servicemembers and veterans. The Bureau found that the companies
mailed consumers advertisements for VA-guaranteed mortgages that contained false,
misleading, and inaccurate statements or lacked required disclosures, in violation of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act's (CFPA) prohibition against deceptive acts and
practices, the Mortgage Acts and Practices - Advertising Rule (MAP Rule), and Regulation Z.
The consent orders require the companies to pay civil money penalties and impose
requirements to prevent future violations.

Today’s actions stem from a Bureau sweep of investigations of multiple mortgage
companies that use deceptive mailers to advertise VA-guaranteed mortgages. The Bureau
commenced this sweep in response to concerns about potentially unlawful advertising in
the market that the VA identified. Accurate and legally compliant advertising provides
consumers with valuable information about the different types of mortgages and terms
available so they can effectively shop for products that best meet their needs. This ongoing
sweep of investigations reflects the Bureau’s commitment to enforcing the laws that ensure
the financial marketplace is fair and accurate for all consumers, including servicemembers,
veterans, and surviving spouses whom VA-guaranteed mortgages are designed to benefit.

The Bureau found that Sovereign and Prime disseminated advertisements that contained
false, misleading, and inaccurate statements or that failed to include required disclosures.
For example, Sovereign and Prime Choice advertisements misrepresented the credit terms
of the advertised mortgage loan by stating credit terms that the company was not actually
prepared to offer to the consumer. Sovereign and Prime Choice advertisements
misleadingly described an advertised introductory interest rate as a “fixed” rate, when in fact
the rate was adjustable and could increase over time. Sovereign and Prime Choice
advertisements also created the false impression that they were affiliated with the
government by using words, phrases, images, or designs that are associated with the VA or
the Internal Revenue Service.

The Bureau also found that both Sovereign and Prime Choice advertisements used the
name of the consumer's lender in a misleading way by not adequately disclosing their own
names and the fact that they were not associated with, or acting on behalf of, the
consumer's current lender, as required by Regulation Z. Sovereign advertisements made
false claims about consumer's existing loans, and falsely implied that the consumer could
address these problems by obtaining a loan from Sovereign. Sovereign and Prime Choice
advertisements also failed to properly disclose, when required by Regulation Z, credit terms
for the advertised mortgage, such as the consumer's repayment obligations over the full
term of the loan and the period during which certain interest rates would apply. Further,
Prime Choice advertisements created the false impression that they contained a property
assessment as well as misleading comparisons between hypothetical credit terms and the
terms of the advertised product.

The consent order against Sovereign requires Sovereign to pay a civil penalty of $460,000.
The consent order against Prime Choice requires Prime Choice to pay a civil penalty of
$645,000. The consent orders also impose injunctive relief to prevent future violations,
including requiring the companies to bolster their compliance functions by designating an
advertising compliance official who must review their mortgage advertisements for
compliance with mortgage advertising laws prior to their use; prohibiting
misrepresentations similar to those identified by the Bureau; and requiring the companies
to comply with certain enhanced disclosure requirements to prevent them from making
future misrepresentations.

The consent order against Sovereign can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_sovereign-lending-group_consent-

 

rder_2020-07.pdf)

The consent order against Prime Choice can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_prime-choice-funding_consent-

 

r_2020-07.pdf)
HH

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
