U.S, Department of Justice

United States Attorney
Southern District of New York

 

The Silvio J. Mollo Building
One Saint Andrew ’s Plaza
New York, New York 10007

‘March 12, 2018

Gabrielle S. Friedman, Esq.
Lankler Siffert & Wohl, LLP
500 Fifth Avenue

New York, NY 10110

Re: United States v. Eberhard Reichert, 11 Cr. 1056 (DLC)
Dear Ms. Friedman:

On the understandings specified below, the Office of the United States Attorney for the
Southern District of New York and the Fraud Section of the Criminal Division of the U.S.
Department of Justice (collectively “the Offices”) will accept a guilty plea from Eberhard Reichert
(‘“Reichert” or the “Defendant’”’) to Count One of the above-referenced Indictment, char ging him
with a violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, in connection with a conspiracy to
violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, including conspiring to commit bribery, falsify
corporate ‘books and records, circumvent internal controls, and to commit wire fraud. This uhatge
carries a maximum sentence of five years’ imprisonment; a maximum term of three years’
supervised release; a maximum fine, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Seétion 3571, of
the greatest of $250,000, twice the gross pecuniary gain derived from the offense, or twice the
gross pecuniary loss to a person other than the Detendant as a result of the offense; and a mandatory
$100 special assessment.

‘Tt is further understood that the Defendant shall make restitution in an amount to be
. specified by. the Court in accordance with 18 U.S.C. §§ 3663, 3663A, and 3664. This amount shall
be paid according to a plan established by the Court. ety

The Defendant furthermore admits the forfeiture allegations with respect to Count One of

the Indictment and agrees to forfeit to the United States, pursuant to pursuant to 18 U.S.C.

§ 981(a)(1)(C) and Title 28 U.S.C. § 2461, all property, real and personal, that constitutes or is

derived from proceeds traceable to the commission of the offense (the “Money Judgment”). It is

. further understood that any forfeiture of the Defendant’s assets shall not be treated as satisfaction

of any fine, restitution, cost of imprisonment, or any other penalty the Court may impose upon him
in addition to forfeiture.

In addition, at the time of sentencing, the Government will move to dismiss any open
Count(s) against the Defendant. The Defendant agrees that with respect to any and all dismissed
charges he is not a “prevailing party” within the meaning of the “Hyde Amendment,” Section 617,
P.L, 105-119 (Nov. 26, 1997), and will not file any claim under that law.

 

 

eee

 

SITAR SEAT E TY | AY NANA MTN TS

apes pp prem amare
Page 2

It is understood that Defendant (a) shall truthfully and completely disclose all information
with respect to the activities of himself and others concerning all.matters about which the Offices
inquire of him, which information can be used for any purpose; (b) shall cooperate fully with the
. Offices, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and any other law enforcement agency designated by
the Offices; (c) shall attend all meetings at which the Offices request his presence; (d) shall provide
to the Offices, upon request, any document, record, or other tangible evidence relating to matters
about which the Offices or any designated law enforcement agency inquires of him; (e) shall
truthfully testify before the grand jury and at any trial and other court proceeding with respect to
any matters about which the Offices may request his testimony; (f) shall bring to the Offices’
_ ,attention all crimes which he has committed, and all administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings,
. investigations, or prosecutions in which he has been or is a subject, target, party, or witness; and,
(g) shall commit no further crimes whatsoever. Moreover, any assistance Defendant may provide
to federal criminal investigators shall be pursuant to the specific instructions and control of the
- Offices and designated investigators.

It is understood that, as part of his cooperation, Reichert agrees to appear voluntarily on
_any date, and at any location, as requested by the Offices to comply with any provision of this
Agreement, including his obligations to attend meetings and court proceedings.

It is understood that the Offices cannot, and do not, agree not to prosecute Reichert for
criminal tax violations, if any. However, if Reichert fully complies with the understandings
specified in this Agreement, no testimony or other information given by him (or any other
information directly or indirectly derived therefrom) will be used against him in any criminal tax
prosecution. Moreover, if Reichert fully complies with the understandings specified in this
Agreement, he will not be further prosecuted criminally by the Offices for any crimes, except for
criminal tax violations, related to his participation in the conspiracy from in or about 1996 to on
or about August 12, 2009 to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, including conspiring to
commit bribery, falsify corporate books and records, circumvent internal controls and commit wire
fraud, as charged in the Indictment, to the extent that he has disclosed such participation to the
Offices as of the date of this Agreement. This Agreement does not provide any protection against
prosecution for any crimes except as set forth above.

It is understood that this Agreement does not bind any federal, state, or local prosecuting
authority other than the Offices. The Offices will, however, bring the cooperation of the Defendant
to the attention of other prosecuting offices, if requested by him. Nor does this Agreement bind
the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), although the Offices will bring the
cooperation of the Defendant to the attention of ICE, if requested by him.

It is understood that the sentence to be imposed upon Reichert is within the sole discretion
of the Court. The Offices cannot, and do not, make any promise or representation as to what
sentence Reichert will receive, and will not recommend any specific sentence to the Court.
However, the Offices will inform the Probation Office and the Court of (a) this Agreement; (b) the
- nature and extent of Reichert’s activities with respect to this case and all other activities of Reichert
- which the Offices deem relevant to sentencing; and (c) the nature and extent of Reichert’s

cooperation with the Offices. In so doing, the Offices may use any information it deems relevant,
including information provided by Reichert both prior to and subsequent to the signing of this

2017.09.29 -

 

 

 

 

feEeTMMR TAMER ETEK

cormmanaesan

ca Va ES TITTY
Page 3

_ Agreement. In addition, if the Offices determine that Reichert has provided substantial assistance
in an investigation or prosecution, and if he has fully complied with the understandings specified
in this Agreement, the Offices will file a motion, pursuant to Section 5K1.1 of the Sentencing
Guidelines requesting the Court to sentence Reichert in light of the factors set forth in Section
5K1.1(a)(1)-(5). It is understood that, even if such a motion is filed, the sentence to be imposed on
the Defendant remains within the sole discretion of the Court. Moreover, nothing in this
Agreement limits the Offices’ right to present any facts and make any arguments relevant to
sentencing to the Probation Office and the Court, or to take any position on post-sentencing
motions, Reichert hereby consents to such adjournments of his sentence as may be requested by
the Offices.

_ It-is understood that, should the Offices determine either that Reichert has not provided
substantial assistance in an investigation or prosecution, or that Reichert has violated any provision
of this Agreement, such a determination will release the Offices from any obligation to file a
motion pursuant to Section 5K1.1 of the Sentencing Guidelines, but will not entitle Reichert to
_ withdraw his guilty plea once it has been entered.

It is understood that, should the Offices determine, subsequent to the filing of a motion
. pursuant to Section 5K1.1 of the Sentencing Guidelines that Reichert has violated any provision
of this Agreement, the Offices shall have the right to withdraw such motion.

It is understood that, should Reichert commit any further crimes or shouldit be determined
that he has given false, incomplete, or misleading testimony or information, or should he otherwise
violate any provision of this Agreement, Reichert shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any
federal criminal violation of which the Offices have knowledge, including perjury and obstruction
of justice. Any such prosecution that is not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on
the date of the signing of this Agreement may be commenced against Reichert, notwithstanding
the expiration of the statute of limitations between the signing of this Agreement and the
- commencement of such prosecution. It is the intent of this Agreement to waive all defenses based
on the statute of limitations with respect to any prosecution that is not time-barred on the date that
this Agreement is signed.

- It is understood that in the event that it is determined that Reichert has committed any
further crimes, given false, incomplete, or misleading testimony or information, or otherwise
_ violated any provision of this Agreement, (a) all statements made by Reichert to the Offices or

other designated law enforcement agents, and any testimony given by Reichert before a grand jury
or other tribunal, whether prior to or subsequent to the signing of this Agreement, and any leads
from such statements or testimony shall be admissible in evidence in any criminal proceeding
brought against Reichert; and (b) Reichert shall assert no claim under the United States
Constitution, any statute, Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that
such statements or any leads therefrom should be suppressed. It is the intent of this Agreement to

waive all rights in the foregoing respects.
It is further understood that the Offices will not object to the Defendant’ s continued release

and travel to Germany on bail conditions as set forth at a bail hearing. Those conditions shall
’. include, but not be limited to, the requirement that the Defendant appear for all court appearances,

2017.09.29

Se a

 
Page 4

including sentencing. The Offices reserve the right to move without notice to the Defendant for a
revocation or modification of the above bail conditions should it determine that the Defendant has
violated any provision of this Agreement or condition of his release, or should it determine that
such a revocation or modification is otherwise appropriate. The Defendant hereby consents to any
such revocation or modification.

_The Defendant hereby acknowledges that he has accepted this Agreement and decided to
plead guilty because he is in fact guilty. By entering this plea of guilty, the defendant waives any
~ and all right to withdraw his plea or to attack his conviction, either on direct appeal or collaterally,
on the ground that the Government has failed to produce any discovery material, Jencks Act
material, exculpatory material pursuant to Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83 (1963), other than
information establishing the factual innocence of the Defendant, or impeachment material pursuant
to Giglio v. United States, 405 U.S. 150 (1972), that has not already been produced as of the date
of the signing of this Agreement.

. The Defendant recognizes that, if he is not a citizen of the United States, his guilty plea
and conviction make it very likely that his deportation from the United States is presumptively
mandatory and that, at a minimum, he is at risk of being deported or suffering other adverse
immigration consequences. The Defendant acknowledges that he has discussed the possible
immigration consequences (including deportation) of his guilty plea and conviction with defense
counsel. The Defendant affirms that he wants to plead guilty regardless of any immigration
consequences that may result from the guilty plea and conviction, even if those consequences
_ include deportation from the United States. It is agreed that the Defendant will have no right to
withdraw his guilty plea based on any actual or perceived adverse immigration consequences
(including deportation) resulting from the guilty plea and conviction. It is further agreed that the
Defendant will not challenge his conviction or sentence on direct appeal, or through litigation
under Title 28, United States Code, Section 2255 and/or Section 2241, on the basis of any actual
or perceived adverse immigration consequences (including deportation) resulting from his guilty
plea and conviction.

This Agreement supersedes any prior understandings, promises, or conditions between the
Offices and the Defendant. No additional understandings, promises, or conditions have been

2017.09.29

 

 
Page 5

. entered into other than those set forth in this Agreement, and none will be entered into unless in
writing and signed by all parties. :

 

 

 

 

| Very truly yours,
GEOFFREY BERMAN SANDRA MOSER
United States Attorney Acting Chief, Fraud Section,
Criminal Division
By: 0 L V/ \_ 4 By: Mbit (lh! en /TAM
Niketh Velamoor Michael Culhane Harper /
Assistant United States Attorney Trial Attorney
(212) 637-1076 (202) 616-5224
_ APPROVED:
dex Zot bt Mb/s
Lisa Zornberg Daniel Kahn .
Chief, Criminal Division | Chief, FCPA Unit, Fraud Section

AGREED AND CONSENTED TO:

Coed LOLA — O(AT/ 2olfk

 

 

 

 

Eberhard Reichert DATE
_ APPROVED:
buh GL 1S. Monn | 2Or
abrielle S. Frfedmar/, Esq. DATE

- Attorney for Eberhard Reichert

. 2017.09.29

 

 
