#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, September 27, 2018

Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. - Petrobras Agrees to Pay More Than $850 Million for FCPA Violations

Reaches Agreement with Brazilian Authorities in Related Investigation

Petrdéleo Brasileiro S.A. - Petrobras (Petrobras), a Brazilian state-owned and state-controlled energy company, entered into agreements with U.S.
and Brazilian authorities and agreed to pay a combined total of $853.2 million in penalties to resolve the U.S. government's investigation into
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in connection with Petrobras’s role in facilitating payments to politicians and political
parties in Brazil, as well as a related Brazilian investigation.

Assistant Attorney General Brian A. Benczkowski of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney G. Zachary Terwilliger of the
Eastern District of Virginia and Assistant Director Robert Johnson of the FBI’s Criminal Investigative Division made the announcement.

“Executives at the highest levels of Petrobras—including members of its Executive Board and Board of Directors—facilitated the payment of
hundreds of millions of dollars in bribes to Brazilian politicians and political parties and then cooked the books to conceal the bribe payments
from investors and regulators,” said Assistant Attorney General Benczkowski. “The Criminal Division’s Fraud Section—together with our
partners in the Eastern District of Virginia, the SEC, and the FBI—are grateful for the assistance provided by our Brazilian law enforcement
counterparts. This case is just the most recent example of our ability to work with our foreign counterparts to investigate companies and other
criminal actors whose conduct spans multiple international jurisdictions.”

“Protecting the integrity of U.S. financial markets is one of the highest priorities of this Administration,” said U.S. Attorney Terwilliger. “Those
who choose to access our Capital markets while failing to disclose the corrupt activities of company executives will be held accountable. | want
to thank our law enforcement partners for their diligence and dedication in pursing this important case.”

“Today’s global resolution demonstrates the FBI’s commitment to thoroughly investigating and holding accountable those international
companies who seek to take advantage of our financial system while also facilitating bribes and fraud in other countries,” said FBI Assistant
Director Johnson. “The hefty $853.2 million criminal penalty should act as a deterrent to anyone seeking to perpetrate this kind of fraud in the
future. This case proves that no company is above the law and that corruption that spans borders will not be tolerated by the United States. |
want to thank the agents, analysts, and prosecutors who investigated this case in parallel with Brazilian authorities. We will continue to pursue
any and all companies and individuals throughout the world who disregard the rule of law and threaten our fair and competitive marketplace for
their personal gain.”

“Today’s substantial resolution demonstrates the FBI’s continued commitment to working with U.S. and international partners to investigate
corruption no matter where it occurs,” said Special Agent in Charge Matthew J. DeSarno of the FBI Washington Field Office’s Criminal Division.
“We remain committed to holding companies and executives who violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act accountable for their activity, and
we will continue to work diligently to uphold the integrity of an increasingly global marketplace."

According to Petrobras’s admissions, while the company’s American Depository Shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, members of
the Petrobras Executive Board were involved in facilitating and directing millions of dollars in corrupt payments to politicians and political
parties in Brazil, and members of Petrobras’s Board of Directors were also involved in facilitating bribes that a major Petrobras contractor was
paying to Brazilian politicians. During this period, for example, a Petrobras executive directed the payment of illicit funds to stop a
parliamentary inquiry into Petrobras contracts, and the executive also directed payments received from Petrobras contractors to be corruptly
used to pay millions of dollars to the campaign of a Brazilian politician who had oversight over the location where one of Petrobras’s refineries
was being built.

Petrobras admitted that it failed to make and keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflected the company’s capitalization
of property, plant and equipment as a result of the bribes being generated by the company’s contractors with the cooperation of certain
Petrobras executives, and that certain Petrobras executives signed false Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) 302 sub-certifications while they were involved
in, and were aware that other executives at Petrobras were involved in, obtaining and facilitating the payment of millions of dollars in bribes to
Brazilian politicians, to Brazilian political parties and to themselves. Petrobras also admitted that certain executives failed to implement internal
financial and accounting controls in order to continue to facilitate bribe payments to Brazilian politicians and Brazilian political parties.

Petrobras entered into a non-prosecution agreement and agreed to pay a criminal penalty of $853.2 million to resolve the matter. This reflects
a 25 percent discount off the low end of the applicable U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range for the company’s full cooperation and
remediation. In related proceedings, Petrobras reached a settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Petrobras
entered into an agreement to reach a settlement with the Ministerio Publico Federal in Brazil. Under the non-prosecution agreement, the United
States will credit the amount that Petrobras pays to the SEC and Brazil under their respective agreements, with the Department of Justice and
the SEC receiving 10 percent ($85,320,000) each and Brazil receiving the remaining 80 percent ($682,560,000). As part of the agreement,
Petrobras has agreed to continue to cooperate with the Department in any ongoing investigations and prosecutions relating to the conduct,
including of individuals, to enhance its compliance program and to report to the Department on the implementation of its enhanced compliance
program.

The Department reached this resolution based on a number of unique factors presented by this case, including that Petrobras is a Brazilian-
owned company that entered into a resolution with Brazilian authorities and is subject to oversight by Brazilian authorities, and that, in addition
to the significant misconduct engaged in by Petrobras, a number of executives of the company engaged in an embezzlement scheme that
victimized the company and its shareholders. In addition, the company did not voluntarily disclose the conduct, but did notify the government
of its intent to fully cooperate after learning of the allegations of misconduct; Petrobras fully cooperated in the investigation and fully
remediated. Petrobras’s cooperation included conducting a thorough internal investigation, proactively sharing in real time facts discovered
during the internal investigation and sharing information that would not have been otherwise available to the Department, making regular
factual presentations to the Department, facilitating interviews of and information from foreign witnesses, and voluntarily collecting, analyzing
and organizing voluminous evidence and information for the Department in response to requests, including translating key documents.
Petrobras also took extensive remedial measures, including replacing the Board of Directors and the Executive Board (the company’s high-level
managers) and implementing governance reforms, as well as disciplining employees and ensuring that the company no longer employs or is
affiliated with any of the individuals known to the company to be implicated in the conduct at issue in the case.

In the related SEC matter, Petrobras also agreed to pay to the SEC disgorgement and prejudgment interest totaling $933,473,797, which shall
be reduced by the amount of any payment Petrobras makes to the class action Settlement Fund in the matter of In re Petrobras Securities
Litigation, No. 14-cv-9662 (S.D.N.Y.).

The FBI's International Corruption Squad in Washington, D.C. investigated the case. Assistant Chiefs Christopher Cestaro and Lorinda Laryea
and Trial Attorney Derek Ettinger of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Grace Hill of the Eastern District of Virginia
prosecuted the case.

The Department appreciates the significant cooperation provided by the SEC and the Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs in this
case.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Attachment(s):
Download Non-Prosecution Agreement and Statement of Facts

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):

Criminal Division

Criminal - Criminal Fraud Section
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
USAO - Virginia, Eastern

Press Release Number:
18-1258

Updated September 27, 2018
