Release Number 7553-17

May 2, 2017

CFTC Charges Pennsylvania Resident William H. Powderly IV with Fraudulently Soliciting Commodity
Futures Customers and Distributing False Account Statements

Washington, DC — The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) filed an enforcement action in the U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois, charging Defendant, William H. Powderly IV (Powderly) of New Hope,
Pennsylvania, with fraudulently soliciting at least $825,000 from at least four customers for purposes of trading
commodity futures on their behalf in an account in Powderly’s name. The Complaint also charges Powderly with making
and providing false and misleading account statements to his customers.

In particular, the Complaint alleges that from at least January 2016 through October 2016, Powderly solicited customers
and prospective customers by claiming that he and a university professor had developed a commodity futures trading
program that generated exceptional hypothetical trading results and that “beta” testing of this system generated
consistent gains without a single day of loss. The Complaint further alleges that when soliciting customers and
prospective customers, Powderly failed to tell them that the actual commodity trading he conducted for his commodity
account during that 10-month period was consistently unprofitable, sustaining losses every month during that time.
Additionally, the Complaint alleges that Powderly created false account statements for his trading account and sent them
to his customers in order to conceal his trading losses.

In its continuing litigation against the Defendant, the CFTC seeks full restitution to defrauded customers, disgorgement of
ill-gotten gains, civil monetary penalties, permanent registration and trading bans, and a permanent injunction against
violations of the federal commodities laws, as charged.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Diane M. Romaniuk, Joseph Patrick, Lindsey
Evans, Scott Williamson and Rosemary Hollinger.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: May 4, 2017
