UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

 

Proceedings Clerk

) (— RECEIVED CFTC >
In the Matter of: ) A
Barclays Bank PLC, ) CFTC Docket No. 15 — 24
)
Respondent. )
)
)

 

 

 

\ 8:03 am, May 20, 2015 /

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c)(4)(A) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”) has reason to
believe that Barclays Bank PLC (“Respondent” or “Barclays”) has violated the Commodity
Exchange Act (the “Act”) and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”), Therefore, the
Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the
violations set forth herein, and to determine whether any order shall be issued imposing remedial
sanctions.

IT.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, except to the extent Barclays
admits those findings in any related action against Barclays by, or any agreement with, the
Department of Justice or any other governmental agency or office, Barclays consents to the entry
and acknowledges service of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c)(4)(A)
and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”),

 

' Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding and in any other
proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party; provided, however, that Respondent
does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of this
Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this
Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other proceeding, Neither the Offer nor the Order confers
any rights to any party other than the Commission and Barclays.

 
TI.

The Commission finds the following:

A, Summary

From 2009 through 2012 (“Relevant Period”), Barclays, by and through certain of its
foreign exchange (“FX”) traders, at times, sought to benefit its own trading positions or those of
FX traders at other banks by attempting to manipulate and aiding and abetting certain traders at
other banks in their attempts to manipulate certain FX benchmark rates.

One of the primary FX benchmark rates that the FX traders attempted to manipulate was
the World Markets/Reuters Closing Spot Rates (“WM/R Rates”). The WM/R Rates are the most
widely referenced FX benchmark rates in the United States and globally. The WM/R Rates are
used to establish the relative values of different currencies, and reflect the rates at which one
currency is exchanged for another currency. Most of the WM/R Rates at issue here are set or
fixed based on trading activity of market participants, including Barclays and other banks, at
various times throughout the day. The most widely used WM/R Rate is set or fixed at 4 p.m.
London time (“WM/R 4 p.m. London fix” or the “4 p.m. fix.”). Another FX benchmark rate that
a Barclays FX trader attempted to manipulate is the Russian Ruble/U.S. Dollar ““RUB/USD”
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (“CME”)/EMTA, Inc.” benchmark rate (“CME/EMTA Rate”)
that is based on indicative bids and offers submitted by banks to the CME, who calculates and
issues the CME/EMTA Rate as well as publishes the submitted bids and offers of each
participant.

FX benchmark rates, including the WM/R Rates and the CME/EMTA Rate, are used to
price a variety of transactions including foreign exchange swaps, cross currency swaps, spot
transactions, forwards, options, futures, and other financial derivative instruments. For example,
the CME/EMTA Rate is the primary rate source for settling Russian Ruble non-deliverable
forward transactions and the price used for calculation of the CME Russian Ruble futures final
settlement price at termination."

At times during the Relevant Period, certain FX traders at Barclays and other banks
coordinated their trading or indicative rate submissions to attempt to manipulate certain FX
benchmark rates, including the WM/R 4 p.m. London fix and the CME/EMTA Rate, to their
benefit. These FX traders at Barclays and the other banks used private electronic chat rooms to
communicate and plan their attempts to manipulate the FX benchmark rates for certain currency
pairs.” Certain FX traders at Barclays regularly participated in numerous private chat rooms. At
times, in certain chat rooms, FX traders at Barclays and other banks disclosed confidential
customer order information and trading positions, altered trading positions or CME/EMTA

 

* Formerly, the “Emerging Markets Traders Association.”

* Also known as the CME/EMTA Russian Ruble per USD Reference Rate,

* CME Submission 05-50R (April 29, 2005), available at
http://www.cftc.gov/files/submissions/rules/selfcertifications/2005/rul042705cme001 pdf

° Some FX traders involved in certain chat rooms at issue herein were responsible for managing their respective
banks’ FX desks.

 
submissions to accommodate the interests of the collective group, and agreed on trading
strategies as part of an effort by the group to attempt to manipulate certain FX benchmark rates,
in some cases downward and in some cases upward.

Barclays traders’ attempts to manipulate certain FX benchmark rates involved multiple
currencies, including some of the most actively traded currencies like the U.S. Dollar, Euro, and
British Pound Sterling. The wrongful conduct involved desks and offices located in at least New
York, London and Moscow.

This conduct occurred at various times over the course of the Relevant Period without
detection by Barclays in part because of internal controls and supervisory failures at Barclays.
Barclays failed to adequately assess the risks associated with its participation in the fixing of
certain FX benchmark rates, including the WM/R 4 p.m. London fix and CME/EMTA rates.
Barclays also lacked adequate internal controls or procedures to detect and deter possible
misconduct involving certain FX benchmark rates and failed to adequately supervise its FX
traders by, among other shortcomings, failing to have adequate controls and monitoring over the
use of electronic chat rooms.

In fact, some of this conduct occurred during the same period that Barclays was on notice
that the CFTC and other regulators were investigating attempts by certain banks to manipulate
the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) and other interest rate benchmarks.°

2K oR oe

In accepting Barclays’ Offer, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s significant
cooperation during the CFTC’s Division of Enforcement’s (“Division”) investigation of this
matter, which included self-reporting preliminary findings of questionable conduct by Barclays
employees to the CFTC and by providing important information and analysis to the Division that
helped the Division efficiently and effectively undertake its investigation. In addition, the
Commission acknowledges that Barclays initiated its own internal investigation into FX trading
prior to the Division’s investigation. The Commission also recognizes that Barclays has
commenced significant remedial action to strengthen the internal controls and policies relating to
foreign exchange benchmarks and internal and external communications by traders.

The Commission notes, however, the civil monetary penalty imposed reflects, in part,
that Barclays did not settle this matter at an earlier stage of the investigation.

B. Respondent

Barclays Bank PLC is a global banking and financial services company based in the
U.K. that is engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth

 

° The CFTC issued an order filing and settling charges that Barclays engaged in certain acts of attempted
manipulation and false reporting of the LIBOR for certain currencies and the Euro Interbank Offered Rate
(“Euribor”), Jn the Matter of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and Barclays Capital Inc., CFTC Docket No. 12-
25 (June 27, 2012) (the relevant period of this action was from at least 2005 to at least 2009).

 
management and investment management services. It is wholly owned by Barclays PLC, and
has offices in New York, New York. It became provisionally registered with the Commission as
a swap dealer on December 31, 2012.

OF Facts
1. The FX Market

The FX market, in which traders are able to buy, sell, exchange and speculate on
currencies, is one of the world’s largest and most actively traded financial markets. According to
the Bank of International Settlements, trading in global foreign exchange markets averaged $5.3
trillion per day in April 2013. Currencies are traded in pairs and the transacted rate represents
the rate to exchange one currency for another currency. The U.S. Dollar is the dominant
currency in the foreign exchange market. The exchange of the U.S, Dollar for another currency
accounts for an estimated 87% of global foreign exchange market activity. The most actively
traded currency pairs are the Euro/U.S. Dollar (EUR/USD), U.S. Dollar/Japanese Yen
(USD/JPY), and British Pound Sterling/U.S. Dollar (GBP/USD). Participants in the FX market
include banks, investment firms, commercial companies, central banks, hedge funds and retail
customers.

The foreign exchange market is comprised of many instruments including spot, forwards,
swaps, futures and option contracts.

2. WM/R Rates and CME/EMTA Rate Overview

The WM/R Rates, some of the leading and most widely referenced foreign exchange
benchmark rates, are calculated multiple times daily, including at 4 p.m. London time, which is
commonly referred to as the “WM/R 4 p.m. London fix” or the “4 p.m. fix.”’ For twenty-one of
the most liquid currencies (the “trade currencies’), the 4 p.m. fix is based on actual trades, using
bids and offers extracted from a certain electronic trading system during a one-minute window
(“fix period”). WM/Reuters determines the bid and offer rates based on the captured transacted
rate and the bid-offer spread. WM/Reuters then calculates the median of these bid and offer
rates and from these medians determines a “mid trade rate.” If there are not enough trades,
WM/Reuters calculates a “mid order rate.” All orders and transactions are weighted equally,
regardless of their notional sizes,

The WM/R Rates for the other 139 less liquid currencies (the “non-trade currencies”) are
set by similar methodology. Because these currencies are less liquid, WM/Reuters relies on
indicative quotes (submissions) derived from a Reuters computer feed that solicits “indications
of interest” from market participants as part of its fixing methodology. WM/Reuters captures
independent snapshots of indicative quotes for bids and offers, and selects the median rate from
these quotes as the ““WM/R 4 p.m. London fix.”

 

” Another important benchmark is the European Central Bank (“ECB”) rate set by the ECB at 1:15 p.m, London
time. Though less widely referenced than the WM/R Rate, the ECB Rates are also used by a wide range of
participants, specifically non-financial corporates and are important for the non-deliverable forwards market. See
Financial Stability Board Foreign Exchange Benchmarks Final Report at 1. (September 30, 2014).

4

 
WM/Reuters also provides fix rates for forward and non-deliverable forward contracts
using methodology similar to that used for non-trade currencies. Fix rates for forward and non-
deliverable forward contracts are published using a premium or discount to the spot rate for the
relevant currency pair.

Other FX benchmark rates are priced through the use of indicative rates. The Russian
Ruble/U.S. Dollar CME/EMTA Rate is derived from a daily telephonic survey of participating
banks® that the CME conducts at a random time between 12:00 p.m. and 12:30 p.m. Moscow
time. If a bank responds to the daily survey, it provides the bid and offer at which it could
execute a $100,000 RUB/USD spot transaction for next-day value in the Moscow marketplace.
Survey participants’ responses are then confirmed in writing, recorded telephone message or
other secure electronic communication.’ If more than ten survey responses are received, the
CME randomly selects ten responses. The CME then determines the midpoint of each bid-offer
pair and eliminates the two lowest and the two highest midpoints. '° The mean of the remaining
six midpoints results in the CME/EMTA Rate for that day. The responding bank names and
their indicative responses are published by the CME and EMTA on their respective websites as
well as the calculated CME/EMTA Rate. The bids and offers submitted by the survey
participants should reflect their honest assessment of the current prevailing market rate. Taking
into account the benefit to the survey participants’ trading positions is not a legitimate or
permissible factor in assessing the currently prevailing market rate.

Foreign exchange futures contracts are connected to FX benchmark rates. The CME
Russian Ruble/U.S, Dollar (RUB/USD) futures contract, for instance, is a cash settled futures
contract for which the final settlement rate, a component of the contract’s price, is equal to the
reciprocal of the CME/EMTA Rate. Exchange rates in many actively traded CME foreign
exchange futures contracts, including the Euro/U.S. Dollar EUR/USD) futures, the U.S.
Dollar/JJapanese Yen (USD/JPY) futures, and British Pound Sterling/U.S. Dollar (GBP/USD)
futures, track rates in spot foreign exchange markets at near parity after adjusting for the forward
differential, or adding or subtracting “forward points.” Speculative traders employ strategies that
seek to capture short-lived arbitrage opportunities between foreign exchange futures and spot
contracts. Since 2012, the CME provides clearing and other services for cash-settled Over the
Counter FX Spot, Forward, Swaps, and Non-Deliverable Forward (NDF) contracts, The
contracts cover 26 currency pairs, including EUR/USD, USD/JPY, and GBP/USD, and are cash-
settled based on the WM/R 4 p.m. London fix.

3. Barclays Traders’ Attempts to Manipulate Trading Based FX Benchmark
Rates

In late 2008, as the financial crisis began to wane, liquidity and volume in the FX market
increased as many financial institutions and other market participants sought to exchange

 

* All participating banks are inside the Russian federation and are active participants in the RUB/USD and/or
Russian Ruble non-deliverable forward markets.

* See CME Rulebook, Chapter 260 (26002 Settlement Procedures),

'° If fewer than ten responses are received (but more than five) the CME eliminates the high and low midpoint. If
fewer than five responses are received no rate will be published for that day.

5

 
currencies. The increase in volume and liquidity allowed Barclays FX traders and traders at
other banks to take advantage of this trading opportunity, specifically during the FX benchmark
rate fixing periods,

At the same time, certain FX traders at Barclays and other banks had and/or developed
relationships with certain FX traders at other banks, and they increasingly used private chat
rooms to communicate and share information with each other. Certain FX traders at Barclays
and other banks routinely participated in the chat rooms. Often, these FX traders had multiple
chat rooms open simultaneously on their trading terminals, and within a chat, the traders often
focused on a particular currency pair. Being a member of certain chat rooms was sometimes
exclusive and by invitation only,

For example, when inviting in a new member, traders in one chat room tried to ensure
that a new member agreed to put the interests of the group first. In one chat, traders from three
other banks discussed'! whether to invite a Barclays trader into a chat room:

Bank Z Trader: 7:49:55 are we ok with keeping this as is..
ie the info lvls & risk sharing?
Bank X Trader: 7:50:27 well...
Bank Z Trader: 7:50:30 that is the qu/estion]
Bank X Trader: 7:50:32 you know him best obv...
7:50:39 if you think we need to adjust it
7:50:43 then he shouldn’t be[] in chat
Bank Y Trader: 7:50:54 yeah that is key
7:51:00 simple question [Bank Z Trader]
7:51:08 I trust you implicitly [Bank Z Trader]
7:51:13 and your judgement
7:51:16 you know him
7:51:21 will he tell rest of desk stuff
7:51:26 or god forbin his nyk...
Bank X Trader: 7:51:46 yes
7:51:51 that’s really imp[ortant] question]
7:52:01 dont want other numpty’s in mkt to know
7:52:17 but not only that
7:52:21 is he gonna protect us
7:52:33 like we protect each other against our own branches
7:52:46 ic if you guys are rhs.. and my nyk is lhs..ill say my
nyk ths in few
Bank Z Trader: 7:53:52 what concerns me is that i know he’ll never tell us

when at risk...

After further discussion of whether the Barclays trader would “add huge value to this cartell,” the
traders decided to invite the trader into the chat room for a “1 month trial,” with the Bank X

 

'' The communications quoted in this Order contain shorthand trader language and many typographical errors. The
shorthand and errors are explained in brackets within the quotations only when deemed necessary to assist with
understanding the discussion.

 
Trader warning him, presumably facetiously, “mess this up and sleep with one eye open at
night.”

These chat rooms were the vehicles through which certain Barclays FX traders and
traders at other banks coordinated attempts to manipulate certain FX benchmark rates, including
the WM/R 4 p.m. London fix. Certain chat room participants used code words to evade
detection by their banks’ compliance monitoring systems.

At times during the Relevant Period, in their attempts to manipulate certain benchmarks
(up or down), Barclays FX traders exchanged the size and direction of the bank’s net orders with
FX traders at other banks and used this information to attempt to coordinate trading strategies,
The traders at times then used this information to enable one or more traders to attempt to
manipulate the FX benchmark rates prior to and during the relevant fixing period.

For example, in one of the chat rooms, if a trader determined that he had fix orders in the
opposite direction to the chat room group’s overall net fixing position approaching the fixing
window, that trader may have transacted before the fix period with traders outside the private
chat room, a practice known by market participants as “netting off,” rather than transact with
other traders within the chat room.’” In certain cases, the goal of this trading strategy was to
maintain the volume of orders held by chat room members in the direction favored by the
majority of the private chat room members and limit orders being executed in the opposite
direction during the fix window.

If traders in the chat room had net orders in the same direction as what they desired rate
movement at the fix to be, then the traders would at times either (1) match off these orders with
traders outside of the chat room in an attempt to reduce the volume of orders in the opposite
direction transacted during the fix period; (2) transfer their orders to a single trader within the
chat room who could then execute a single order during the fix period; or (3) transact with
traders outside of the chat room to increase the volume traded by chat room members during the
fix window in the direction favored by the private chat room traders. At times, traders also
increased the volume traded by them at the fix in the direction favored by the chat room traders
in excess of the volume necessary to manage the risk associated with their banks’ net buy or sell
orders at the fix. At times, these actions were undertaken in order to attempt to manipulate the
benchmark rate set during the fix period.

Some examples of Barclays FX traders’ misconduct include:

In one chat, a Bank Y Trader and a Barclays trader coordinated their trading in an attempt
to manipulate a WM/R 4 p.m. London fix. At 3:43:50, the Barclays trader asked the Bank Y
trader whether he needed to buy Euros in the market in the forthcoming fix. The Bank Y trader
responded that he had a net buy order for the fix, which he subsequently confirmed as totaling
105 million. At 3:44:04, the Bank Y trader offered to transfer that net buy order to the Barclays
trader. The Barclays trader replied “maybe” and then stated that he had a net buy order for 150
million.

 

The Commission does not consider that the netting off of orders (or the decision not to net off) ahead of fixes is
inappropriate in all circumstances,

 
The traders had the following exchange:

Barclays Trader: 3:46:53 i'd prefer we join forces
Bank Y Trader: 3:46:56 perfick

3:46:59 lets do this...
Bank Y Trader: 3:47:11 lets double team them
Barclays Trader: 3:47:12 Y ESssssssssssss

Immediately after the fixing window, the traders congratulated themselves:

Barclays Trader: 4:03:25 sml rumour we haven’t lost it
Bank Y Trader: 4:03:45 we

4:03:46 do

4:03:48 dollarrr

In another chat, traders for Barclays and three other banks exchanged positions in a chat
room leading into the WM/R 4 p.m. fix. The Bank Y trader said “it cant be a good day to be
[right hand side].” '* Once the four traders determined they were all the same direction, the
Barclays trader asked if “we gonna be able to get it to 05” to which the Bank Y trader responded
“is that the troyal fkn we.” After the fixing window closed the Bank X trader said “nice call” and
the chat room members gave their “scores” or profits from the fix, The chat room members each
claimed they made between $60,000 and $220,000.

4, Barclays Traders’ Attempts to Manipulate the Submission Based
CME/EMTA Rate through False Reports

Barclays provided indicative bids and offers to the CME for the fixing of the
CME/EMTA Rate on certain days between August 2009 until August 2011. On at least a few
occasions, a Barclays FX trader attempted to manipulate the CME/EMTA Rate by providing
false reports concerning his view of the current prevailing bids and offers to the CME in order to
move the CME/EMTA Rate up or down in whatever direction would benefit his trading positions
or the trading positions of other banks. The Barclays FX trader coordinated, through an
electronic chat room, with traders from other banks who also made submissions to skew their
indicative bids and offers to try to move the CME/EMTA Rate in the direction they desired.

For example, in one chat including a Barclays FX trader, one RUB/USD trader suggested
“we should all lower fix by several kopecks” to which another trader replied “ves.7/4 A third
trader agreed that “it is a right idea to lower the fix by a few kopecks,” The Barclays FX trader
responded “‘so what, 5 kopecks and all/everyone is splendid.” After that conversation, the
Barclays trader submitted an artificially low indicative bid and offer to the CME, consistent with

 

'’ If an FX trader has orders to sell of the first currency listed in any currency pair, it is often referred to as being on
the left-hand side, or “Ihs.” Tf an FX trader references right hand side, or “rhs,” it indicates that the FX trader is a
buyer of the first currency listed in a currency pair.

'“ RUB/USD chatroom language is in Russian and quotations come from an unofficial translation.

8

 
his conversation with the other traders, that was used by the CME to calculate the final
CME/EMTA Rate.

A bank’s trading positions are not legitimate or permissible factors on which to base a
bank’s submission of bids and offers for purposes of determining the CME/EMTA Rate.

5. Respondent Lacked Adequate Internal Controls

During the Relevant Period, Barclays failed to adequately assess the risks associated with
its FX traders participating in the fixing of certain FX benchmark rates. Barclays also lacked
adequate internal controls in order to prevent its FX traders from engaging in improper
communications with certain FX traders at other banks. Barclays lacked sufficient policies,
procedures and training specifically governing participation in trading around the FX
benchmarks rates and had inadequate policies pertaining to, or insufficient oversight of, its FX
traders’ use of chat rooms or other electronic messaging.

In approximately March 2012, Barclays received a customer complaint regarding
potential inappropriate disclosure of customer information in an internal FX chatroom, Barclays
then undertook an investigation of FX chatroom usage. Following and as a result of that
investigation, in consultation with FX management and Legal and Compliance representatives,
beginning in August 2012, Barclays undertook a process of instructing FX traders to cease
participation in multi-bank chat rooms, and issued guidance and enhanced training with respect
to the sharing of client information. On October, 22, 2012, FX traders at Barclays were formally
instructed to cease participation in multi-bank chatrooms,

Furthermore, in June 2013, Barclays commenced an internal investigation of possible
misconduct by it FX Traders relating to FX benchmark rates. On October 25, 2013, Barclays

reported to the CFTC and other governmental authorities’ preliminary findings of questionable
conduct.

IV.

LEGAL DISCUSSION

 

A. Barclays, Through the Acts of Certain Traders, Attempted to Manipulate FX
Benchmark Rates

Together, Sections 6(c),'° 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act prohibit acts of attempted
manipulation. 7 U.S.C. §§9, 13b and 13(a)(2) (2012). Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes it
unlawful for “[a]ny person to... attempt to manipulate the price of any commodity in interstate
commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity....” 7
ULS.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012). Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act authorize the Commission to serve a
complaint and provide for the imposition of, among other things, civil monetary penalties and
cease and desist orders if the Commission “has reason to believe that any person” has attempted

 

'® Section 6(c) was amended effective August 15, 2011. For conduct occurring on or after that date, the relevant
Section of the Act is now Section 6(c)(4)(A), 7 U.S.C. § 9(4)(A) (2012).

9

 
to manipulate the market price of any commodity, in interstate commerce, or otherwise is
violating or has violated any of the provisions of the Act. 7 U.S.C. §§ 9 and 13b (2012).

With respect to conduct on or after August 15, 2011, in addition to Sections 6(c), 6(d)
and 9(a)(2), Section 6(c)(3) of the Act prohibits the attempted manipulation of the price of any
commodity in interstate commerce. 7 U.S.C. § 9(3) (2012). Commission Regulation 180.2, 17
C.F.R. §180.2 (2014), which became effective on August 15, 2011, in relevant part, makes it
“unlawful to... directly or indirectly ... to attempt to manipulate, the price of ...any
commodity in interstate commerce.” Regulation 180.2 codifies Section 6(c)(3).

Two elements are required to prove an attempted manipulation: (1) an intent to affect the
market price, and (2) an overt act in furtherance of that intent. See In re Hohenberg Bros. Co.,
[1975-77 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 7 20,271, at 21,477 (CFTC Feb. 18,
1977); CFTC v. Bradley, 408 F, Supp. 2d 1214, 1220 (N.D. Okla. 2005). To prove the intent
element of attempted manipulation, it must be shown that Barclays FX traders “acted (or failed
to act) with the purpose or conscious object of causing or effecting a price or price trend in the
market that did not reflect the legitimate forces of supply and demand.” Jn re Indiana Farm
Bureau Coop. Ass’n, [1982-1984 Transfer Binder] Comm, Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) ¥ 21,796, at
27,283 (CFTC Dec. 17, 1982), “[W]hile knowledge of relevant market conditions is probative of
intent, it is not necessary to prove that the accused knew to any particular degree of certainty that
his actions would create an artificial price. It is enough to present evidence from which it may
reasonably be inferred that the accused ‘consciously desire[d] that result, whatever the likelihood
of that result happening from his conduct.’” /d. (quoting U.S. v. U.S. Gypsum Co., 438 U.S, 422,
445 (1978)). A profit motive may also be evidence of intent, although profit motive is not a
necessary element of an attempted manipulation. See In re DiPlacido, [2007-2009 Transfer
Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4 30,970, at 62,484 (CFTC Nov. 5, 2008) (citing Jn re
Hohenberg Bros, Co,, [1975-1977 Transfer Binder] Comm, Fut, L. Rep. (CCH) at 21,478)),
aff'd, 364 Fed. Appx. 657, No. 08-5559-ag, 2009 WL 3326624 (2d Cir, 2009), Itis also not
necessary that there be an actual effect on price. See CFTC vy, Amaranth Advisors, L.L.C., 554 F.
Supp.2d 523, 533 (S.D.N.Y. 2008).

Here, as evidenced by the communications and other facts set forth above, certain
Barclays FX traders specifically intended to affect the fixing of certain FX benchmarks,
including the WM/R Rates and CME/EMTA Rate. Their intent is also made clear by the
evidence that their motive was to benefit Barclays’ trading positions or the trading positions of
other banks. Barclays, through its traders, took overt acts in furtherance of intent to affect the
fixings of certain FX benchmarks, including the WM/R Rates and CME/EMTA Rate,
Accordingly, Barclays engaged in acts of attempted manipulation of certain FX benchmarks,
commodities in interstate commerce, in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d) and 9(a)(2), 7 U.S.C. §§
9, 13b and 13(a)(2) (2012). Additionally, with respect to conduct occurring on or after August
15, 2011, Barclays engaged in acts of attempted manipulation in violation of Section 6(c)(3), 7
U.S.C. § 933) (2012), and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R. § 180.2 (2014).

10

 
B. Barclays Made False, Misleading or Knowingly Inaccurate Reports to the CME
Relating to the Russian Ruble/ U.S. Dollar CME/EMTA Rate

Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes it unlawful for any person “knowingly to deliver or
cause to be delivered for transmission through the mails or interstate commerce by telegraph,
telephone, wireless, or other means of communication false or misleading or knowingly
inaccurate reports concerning crop or market information or conditions that affect or tend to
affect the price of any commodity in interstate commerce...” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2006);
United States v. Brooks, 681 F.3d 678, 691 (Sth Cir. 2012); United States v. Valencia, 394 F.3d
352, 354-55 (Sth Cir, 2004); see also CFTC vy. Johnson, 408 F. Supp. 2d 259, 267 (S.D. Tex.
2005).

In limited instances between August 2009 until August 2011, Barclays, acting through
one of its traders, knowingly provided or caused to be provided to the CME false, misleading or
knowingly inaccurate reports concerning the bids and offers at which it could execute a $100,000
RUB/USD spot transaction for next-day value in the Moscow marketplace for purposes of the
CME/EMTA Rate calculation. The Barclays trader’s reports were also caused to be delivered
through the mails or interstate commerce through the daily dissemination and publication
globally, including in the United States, of the results of the survey via the Reuters, CME and
EMTA websites. The CME also distributes the CME/EMTA Rate through its normal
distribution channels. Barclays’s CME/EMTA submissions contained market information
concerning the prevailing market rates at which a $100,000 RUB/USD spot transaction for next-
day value in the Moscow marketplace could be executed. Such market information affects or
tends to affect the prices of commodities in interstate commerce, including the rate at which the
CME/EMTA Rate is fixed.

During the relevant period, on certain occasions, Barclays’ CME/EMTA Rate survey
responses were false, misleading or inaccurate because the bids and offers it submitted were
skewed to benefit trading positions held by the Barclays’ trader or traders at other banks, and
thus based on illegitimate factors. The Barclays trader knowingly submitted the false bids and
offers. By submitting false bids or offers in its survey responses, Barclays conveyed false,
misleading or inaccurate market information that the bids and offers it submitted were based on
and related solely to its reasonable judgment and honest assessment of the bids and offers at
which it could execute a $100,000 RUB/USD spot transaction for next-day value in the Moscow
marketplace and were truthful and reliable.

By such conduct, Barclays violated Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C, § 13(a)(2)
(2006),

Cc, Respondent Aided and Abetted the Attempts of Certain Traders at Other Banks to
Manipulate FX Benchmark Rates

Pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Act, liability as an aider and abettor requires proof that:
(1) the Act was violated, (2) the aider and abettor had knowledge of the wrongdoing underlying
the violation, and (3) the aider and abettor intentionally assisted the primary wrongdoer. See 7
ULS.C. § 13c(a) (2012); In re Sharokh Nikkhah, {1999-2000 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut, L.

1]

 
Rep. (CCH) ¥ 28,129, at 49,888 n.28 (CFTC May 12, 2000). Although actual knowledge of the
primary wrongdoer’s conduct is required, knowledge of the unlawfulness of such conduct is not
necessarily required to be demonstrated. See In re Lincolnwood Commodities, Inc., [1982-1984
Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) § 21,986, at 28,255 (CFTC Jan. 31, 1984).
Knowing assistance can be inferred from the surrounding facts and circumstances. Jd. See also
In re Buckwalter, [1990-1992 Transfer Binder] Comm, Fut, L. Rep. (CCH) § 24,995, at 37,686
(CFTC Jan, 25, 1991),

Here, as evidenced by the foregoing acts of coordination to benefit respective trading
positions, FX traders at other banks attempted to manipulate the WM/R, CME/EMTA and other
FX benchmark rates in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d) and 9(a)(2), 7 U.S.C, §§ 9, 13b and
13(a)(2) (2012), Additionally, with respect to conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011 FX
traders at other banks violated Section 6(c)(3), 7 U.S.C, § 9(3), and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R.
§ 180.2 (2014). As evidenced above, Barclays, through the acts of certain of its FX traders, aided
and abetted the attempts of traders at other banks to manipulate the FX benchmark rates in
violation of the Act.

D. Barclays is Liable for the Acts of its Agents

Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2, 17
C.F.R. § 1.2 (2014), provide that “[t]he act, omission, or failure of any official, agent or other
person acting for any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust within the scope
of his employment or office shall be deemed the act, omission, or failure of such individual,
association, partnership, corporation or trust[.]” Pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act and
Commission Regulation 1.2, strict liability is imposed on principals for the actions of its agents,
See, e.g., Rosenthal & Co. y. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986); Dohmen-Ramirez &
Wellington Advisory, Inc. v. CFTC, 837 F.2d 847, 857-58 (9th Cir, 1988),

Barclays is liable for the acts, omissions and failures of any traders who acted as its
employees and/or agents in relation to the conduct described above. Accordingly, Barclays
violated Sections 6(c), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b and 13(a)(2)(2012), by
engaging in attempted manipulation and aiding and abetting attempted manipulation,
Additionally, with respect to conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011, Barclays is liable
for violating Section 6(c)(3), 7 U.S.C. § 9(3), 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §
180.2 (2014), as set forth above.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS
Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Sections 6(c),
6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b and 13(a)(2) (2012), and for conduct occurring on

or after August 15, 2011, Section 6(c)(3), 7 U.S.C. § 9(3) and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R.
§ 180.2 (2014),

12

 
A,

B,

VI.

OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent, without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein has
submitted the Offer in which it:

Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to this Order only and for any
action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based on violation of or
enforcement of this Order;

Waives:

1, the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2, a hearing;

3, all post-hearing procedures;

4, judicial review by any court;

5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6, any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C, § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2014), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding;

7. any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8, any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the

entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

l.

makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Sections 6(c), 6(d)
and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b and 13(a)(2) (2012), and for conduct

13

 
occurring on or after August 15, 2011, Section 6(c)(3), 7 U.S.C, § 9(3) and
Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R. § 180.2 (2014);

2, orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(3) and 9(a)(2)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 9(3) and 13(a)(2) (2012) and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R.
§ 180.2 (2014);

3. orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $400,000,000
plus post-judgment interest; and

4, orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this
Order.

Respondent represents that it has already undertaken certain steps intended to make
reasonable efforts to ensure the integrity of the FX markets discussed above, and
including, but not limited to, the following:

1, Prohibiting all FX spot traders from participating in multi-bank chat rooms;
2. Strengthening surveillance of FX desks;
3. Mandating at least annual training for all FX employees concerning appropriate

market conduct;

4, In October 2012, issuing GFX Market Colour Guidelines, which outlined what
constituted an acceptable use of market information for communications with
clients;

5, In December 2012, issuing Guidelines on Information Exchange with
Competitors, which specified that commercially sensitive information should not
be shared with competitors;

6. In June 2013, commencing an internal investigation of possible misconduct by its
FX traders relating to FX benchmark rates;

7, On October 25, 2013 reporting to the CFTC and other governmental authorities
preliminary findings of questionable conduct;

8, Reviewing Barclays’ business practices and systems and controls, which included
remedial efforts across the bank at the Group, Compliance and front office

levels. Among other projects that Barclays undertook:

a. At the Group level, an independent review of Barclays’ business practices
was conducted, which, among other things, led to the introduction of a

14

 
new code of conduct which sets out the ethical and professional behaviors
expected of employees;

b. At the Group level and with respect to its investment banking operations,
significant work to strengthen the role of Compliance. The work has
included increasing Compliance’s visibility on board and management
committees, developing a process and reporting framework to support
monitoring and verification activity undertaken by Compliance, holding
standardized and structured monthly business line meetings between
Compliance and the Global Head of the business they cover, formalizing a
breach review process to ensure consistent and effective treatment of
Compliance policy breaches, enhancing and transitioning to a centralized
model for trade surveillance and e-communications surveillance and
increasing Compliance’s budget for staff and training;

c. Barclays undertook work on Front Office Risks and Controls, a group that
was established in December 2012 and acts as a single coordination point
to focus Barclays’ approach to risk and control within and across the Front
Office. Barclays also undertook the development of a new Global
Supervision policy, which was followed by a training program that all
supervisors were required to complete by the end of Q3 2012 and the
appointment of a Chief Controls Officer who is responsible for
coordinating all control elements;

d. Barclays has conducted, and continues to conduct, significant reviews of
risks relating to benchmarks and conflicts of interest, including:

i. A project designed to evaluate all benchmark rates for which
Barclays was engaged in a subjective submission process, and as a
result of which Barclays exited 10 benchmark submissions,
automated 7 benchmark submissions, and implemented additional
supervisory procedures for 13 benchmark contributions; and

ii, A forward looking project to define a control framework for
potential economic conflicts of interest between Barclays and third
parties that arise from trading activities across products,
benchmarks and client order types.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

15

 
VIL.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(3) and 9(a)(2) of the Act,
7 ULS.C. §§ 9(3) and 13(a)(2) (2012) of the Act and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R. § 180.2
(2014).

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty of $400 Million Dollars ($400,000,000),
within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “CMP Obligation”), Ifthe
CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order,
then post judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of
entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on
the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012). Respondent shall
pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified
check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be made other than
by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables --- AMZ 340
E-mail Box: 9-AMC-AMZ-AR-CFTC
DOT/FAA/MMAC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-7262

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the Respondent and the name and docket
number of this proceeding. The Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the
cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20581.

Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following undertakings
set forth in the Offer:

1, REMEDIATION

As set forth above in Section VI, paragraph F, Respondent represents that it has
already undertaken and continues to undertake extensive remedial measures to

16

 
implement and strengthen its internal controls and procedures relating to its
participation in the fixing of FX benchmark rates and related supervision of its FX
traders. With respect to its remediation efforts to the extent not already
undertaken, Respondent undertakes that:

a. Respondent will implement and improve its internal controls and procedures
in a manner reasonably designed to ensure the integrity of its participation in
the fixing of any FX benchmark rate, including measures to identify and
address internal or external conflicts of interest;

b. Its remediation improvements will include internal controls and procedures
relating to:

# measures designed to enhance the detection and deterrence of
improper communications concerning FX benchmark rates, including
the form and manner in which communications may occur;

* monitoring systems designed to enhance the detection and deterrence
of trading or other conduct potentially intended to manipulate directly
or indirectly FX benchmark rates;

# periodic audits, at least annually, of Respondent’s participation in the
fixing of any FX benchmark rate;

= supervision of trading desks that participate in the fixing of any FX
benchmark rate;

= routine and on-going training of all traders, supervisors and others who
are involved in the fixing of any FX benchmark rate;

# processes for the periodic but routine review of written and oral
communications of any traders, supervisors and others who are
involved in the fixing of any FX benchmark rate with the review being
documented and documentation being maintained for a period of three
years; and

" continuing to implement its system for reporting, handling and
investigating any suspected misconduct or questionable, unusual or
unlawful activity relating to the fixing of any FX benchmark rate with
escalation to compliance and legal, and with reporting of material
matters to the executive management of Barclays and the Commission,
as appropriate; the Respondent shall maintain the record basis of the
handling of each such matter for a period of three years.

c. Within 120 days of the entry of this Order, Respondent shall make a report to
the Commission, through the Division, concerning its remediation efforts,

17

 
prior to and since the entry of this Order. Within 365 days of the entry of this
Order, Respondent shall submit a report to the Commission, through the
Division, explaining how it has complied with the undertakings set forth
herein, The report shall contain a certification from a representative of the
Respondent’s Executive Management, after consultation with the
Respondent’s chief compliance officer(s), that the Respondent has complied
with the undertakings set forth above, and that it has established policies,
procedures, and controls to satisfy the undertakings set forth in the Order,

COOPERATION WITH THE COMMISSION

In this action, and in any investigation or other action instituted by the
Commission, related to the subject matter of this action, Respondent shall
cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission, including the Division,
As part of such cooperation, Respondent agrees to the following for a period of
three (3) years from the date of the entry of this Order, or until all related
investigations and litigations in which the Commission, including the Division, is
a party, are concluded, including through the appellate review process, whichever

period is longer:

I.

Preserve all records relating to the subject matter of this
proceeding, including, but not limited to, audio files, electronic
mail, other documented communications, and trading records;

Comply fully, promptly, completely, and truthfully with all
inquiries and requests for non-privileged information or
documents;

Provide authentication of documents and other evidentiary
material;

Provide copies of non-privileged documents within Barclays’
possession, custody or control;

Subject to applicable laws and regulations, Barclays will make
its best efforts to produce any current (as of the time of the
request) officer, director, employee, or agent of Barclays,
regardless of the individual’s location, and at such location that
minimizes Commission travel expenditures, to provide
assistance at any trial, proceeding, or Commission
investigation related to the subject matter of this proceeding,
including, but not limited to, requests for testimony,
depositions, and/or interviews, and to encourage them to testify
completely and truthfully in any such proceeding, trial, or
investigation; and

18

 
6. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, Barclays will make
its best efforts to assist in locating and contacting any prior (as
of the time of the request) officer, director, employee or agent
of Barclays;

Respondent also agrees that it will not undertake any act that would limit its
ability to cooperate fully with the Commission. Barclays will designate an agent
located in the United States of America to receive all requests for information
pursuant to these Undertakings, and shall provide notice regarding the identity of
such Agent to the Division upon entry of this Order. Should Barclays seek to
change the designated agent to receive such requests, notice of such intention
shall be given to the Division fourteen (14) days before it occurs. Any person
designated to receive such request shall be located in the United States of
America.

PROHIBITED OR CONFLICTING UNDERTAKINGS

Should the Undertakings herein be prohibited by, or be contrary to the provisions
of any obligations imposed on Respondent by any presently existing, or
hereinafter enacted or promulgated laws, regulations, regulatory mandates, or the
rules or definitions issued by a Benchmark Publisher, then Respondent shall
promptly transmit notice to the Commission (through the Division) of such
prohibition or conflict, and shall meet and confer in good faith with the
Commission (through the Division) to reach an agreement regarding possible
modifications to the Undertakings herein sufficient to resolve such inconsistent
obligations. In the interim, Respondent will abide by the obligations imposed by
the law, regulations, regulatory mandates and Benchmark Publishers’ rules and
definitions. Nothing in these Undertakings shall limit, restrict or narrow any
obligations pursuant to the Act or the Commission’s Regulations promulgated
thereunder, including, but not limited to, Regulations 1.31 and 1.35, 17 C.F.R. §§
1.31 and 1.35 (2014), in effect now or in the future.

PUBLIC STATEMENTS

Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and assigns, agents or
employees under its authority or control shall take any action or make any public
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order
or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondent’s
(1) testimonial obligations, or (11) right to take positions in other proceedings to
which the Commission is not a party. Respondent and its successors and assigns
shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or
employees under its authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement.

19

 
5. PARTIAL SATISFACTION
Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the Commission of
partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of

its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission,

    

Christopher J.“Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

 

Dated: May 20, 2015

20

 
