Press Release

SEC Charges Former Executive at Tampa-Based Engineering
Firm With FCPA Violations

Company to Pay $3.4 Million in Deferred Prosecution Agreement

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

2015-13

Washington D.C., Jan. 22, 2015 — The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged a former officer at a Tampa, Fla.-based
engineering and construction firm with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by offering and authorizing bribes and employment
to foreign officials to secure Qatari government contracts.

The SEC also announced a deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) with The PBS} Corporation that defers FCPA charges for a period of two
years and requires the company to comply with certain undertakings. PBS] must immediately pay $3.4 million in financial remedies as part of
the agreement, which reflects the company’s significant cooperation with the SEC investigation. PBS] is now known as The Atkins North
America Holdings Corporation and no longer offers public stock in the U.S.

An SEC investigation found that Walid Hatoum, who has agreed to settle the SEC’s charges, offered to funnel funds to a local company owned
and controlled by a foreign official in order to secure two multi-million Qatari government contracts for PBS] in 2009. The foreign official
subsequently provided Hatoum and PBS|’s international subsidiary with access to confidential sealed-bid and pricing information that enabled
the PBS] subsidiary to tender winning bids for a hotel resort development project in Morocco and a light rail transit project in Qatar.

“Hatoum offered and authorized nearly $1.4 million in bribes disguised as ‘agency fees’ intended for a foreign official who used an alias to
communicate confidential information that assisted PBS],” said Kara Brockmeyer, Chief of the SEC Enforcement Division’s FCPA Unit. “PBS}
ignored multiple red flags that should have enabled other officers and employees to uncover the bribery scheme at an earlier stage. But
once discovered, the company self-reported the potential FCPA violations and cooperated substantially.”

According to the SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding against Hatoum, he also offered employment to a second foreign
official in return for assistance as the bribery scheme began to unravel and PBS] lost the hotel resort contract. Even though the bribes
themselves were not consummated before the scheme was uncovered by the company, PBS] earned approximately $2.9 million in illicit
profits because it continued work on the light rail project until a replacement company could be found.

Under the DPA, PBS] agreed to pay disgorgement and interest of $3,032,875 and a penalty of $375,000. PBSJ took quick steps to end the
misconduct after self-reporting to the SEC, and the company voluntarily made witnesses available for interviews and provided factual
chronologies, timelines, internal summaries, and full forensic images to cooperate with the SEC’s investigation.

The SEC’s order against Hatoum finds that he violated the anti-bribery, internal accounting controls, books and records, and false records
provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Without admitting or denying the findings, Hatoum agreed to pay a penalty of $50,000.

The SEC’s investigation was conducted by FCPA Unit members Tracy L. Price and Jim Valentino. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the
Justice Department’s Fraud Section and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

HH

Related Materials

e SEC order - Hatoum

e Deferred Prosecution Agreement
- PBS)
