 

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION] —OUttce of Proceedings
Proceedings Clerk

\ 11:16 am, Mar 09, a,

CFTC Docket No. 16-07

 

 

 

 

In the Matter of:
CHS, Inc. and
CHS Hedging, LLC,
(formerly CHS Hedging, Inc.),

Respondents.

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
I,

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC” or “Commission’”) has reason to
believe CHS, Inc. (“CHS”) violated Commission Regulation 19.01, 17 C.F.R. § 19.01 (2014)
and that CHS Hedging, LLC (formerly CHS Hedging, Inc.) (“CHS Hedging,” collectively
“Respondents”) willfully aided and abetted CHS’s violations and, pursuant to Section 13(a) of
the Commodity Exchange Act (“the Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 13c(a) (2014), is liable for such violations.
Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondents
engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order should be issued
imposing remedial sanctions.

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of this administrative proceeding, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondents consent to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and
acknowledge service of this Order.!

 

' CHS and CHS Hedging consent to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding and

in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party; provided, however, that
CHS and CHS Hedging do not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or conclusions in this Order consented
to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in
bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of this Order. Nor do CHS and CHS Hedging consent to the use of the Offer or
this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other
proceeding.
iil.

The Commission finds the following:

A. Summary

Entities are required to file Form 204 reports if they 1) hold or control reportable futures
and options positions in certain agricultural commodities — including wheat, corn, oats, soybeans,
soybean oil, and soybean meal; and 2) any part of those positions constitute bona fide hedging
positions.’ In the Form 204 reports, entities are required to show the composition of their fixed
price cash position of each such commodity hedged. From at least January 2000 until May 2013
(the “Relevant Period”), CHS held reportable positions in the corn and soybean futures markets
in an effort to hedge cash positions in corn and soybeans thus triggering their Form 204 report
obligations. CHS delegated to CHS Hedging the responsibility to prepare and submit the Form
204 reports. During the Relevant Period, CHS Hedging filed consistently incorrect Form 204
reports on a monthly basis with the Commission that did not comply with the statutory
requirements.

***

In accepting Respondents’ Offer, the Commission recognizes that Respondents have
already instituted remedial action to strengthen the internal controls and policies relating to the
preparation of Form 204 reports.

B. Respondents

CHS, Ine. is a Minnesota cooperative corporation with its headquarters in Inver Grove
Heights, Minnesota. CHS is a global agribusiness owned by farmers, ranchers, and cooperatives
across the United States. CHS has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

CHS Hedging, LLC isa Delaware limited liability company with its headquarters in
Inver Grove Heights, Minnesota.’ CHS Hedging maintains offices in Kansas City, Missouri and
Indianapolis, Indiana, along with branch locations in 12 states, most of them in partnership with
local cooperatives. CHS Hedging is a wholly owned subsidiary of CHS and provides hedging
services to its member owners as well as customers in the farm industry. During the Relevant
Period, CHS Hedging had the responsibility to prepare and submit Form 204 reports for CHS.
CHS Hedging has been registered with the Commission as a Futures Commission Merchant
(“FCM”) since 1986.

 

2 Regulations 19.00(a)(1) and 19.01, 17 C.F.R. §§19.00(a)(1) and 19.01 (2014), set out which commodities may
trigger an entity’s requirement to file Form 204 reports and the timing and content of such reports. Regulation
15.00(p)}(2), 17 C.F.R. §15.00(p)(2) (2014) sets out what constitutes a “reportable position” for the purpose of the
Form 204 reports.

> Regulation 1.3(z), 17 C.F.R. §1.3(z) (2011) defines what constitutes a “bone fide hedging transaction” and
therefore exempt from spot month position limits in particular commodities.

‘During the Relevant Period, CHS Hedging, Inc. was a Delaware Corporation. It became a Delaware limited

liability company on February 10, 2014.
Cc. Facts

Form 204 reports are filed monthly, as of the close of business on the last Friday of the
month, and show the composition of the reporting entity’s fixed price cash position of each
commodity hedged, including the quantity of open fixed price purchase and fixed price sale
commitments in such cash commodities. As the instructions for the Form 204 report state, the
filer is to “[r]eport in thousands of bushels the entire quantity of cash stocks owned and open
fixed price cash purchases and cash sales of the commodity and its products and byproducts.”
One purpose of the Form 204 report is to check compliance with speculative position limits by
ensuring that filers that classify their futures positions as hedging actually own or control
offsetting cash positions.

CHS is an agricultural cooperative that owns and operates various grain and oilseed
processing and wholesale, farm supply, fuel, financial services and retail businesses. Within its
various businesses, CHS has three individual business units that hold sizable cash positions in
corn and soybeans. In an effort to hedge the risk exposure posed by these cash positions, CHS
entered into sizable futures and options positions in the related corn and soybean spot markets
triggering the reportable position threshold and an obligation to file a Form 204 report. A bona
fide hedger is allowed to exceed the spot month futures position limits if it is able to document
the composition of its fixed price cash position in the related commodities on the Form 204
report. In this instance, CHS regularly filed the monthly Form 204 reports with the Commission
demonstrating that it had fixed price cash positions in corn and soybeans, which qualified it as a
bona fide hedger. Accordingly, CHS was allowed to take positions in the corn and soybean
futures market in excess of the spot month position limits.

CHS’s Form 204 reports included the aggregate position data from the three individual
agricultural business units wholly owned by CHS that held sizable cash positions in corn and
soybeans. CHS Hedging, a wholly owned subsidiary of CHS and FCM, was tasked by CHS with
obtaining trade and position information from the three business units, compiling the Form 204
reports, and forwarding them to the Commission. When the Division of Market Oversight
(“DMO”) began looking into CHS’s spot month positions for corn and soybeans, CHS
simultaneously began reviewing its Form 204 reporting process. In so doing, CHS discovered
that the CHS Hedging employee tasked with obtaining trade data did not obtain updated numbers
reflecting fixed-price cash positions for one of the three business units, and instead used a static
fixed-price cash position number each month in preparing the Form 204 reports. According to
CHS, the CHS Hedging employee used the same static fixed-price cash position number dating
back to at least January 2000, thirteen years prior to the date of discovery. Consequently, during
the Relevant Period, CHS filed Form 204 reports that incorrectly stated its fixed price cash
positions.

During the Relevant Period, CHS, through CHS Hedging, filed with the Commission
consistently incorrect Form 204 reports on a monthly basis which did not accurately state the
quantities of CHS’s fixed price cash positions of each commodity hedged. Specifically, the
positions CHS included in its Form 204 reports failed to include the accurate positions for one of
its subsidiaries. After it discovered the error, CHS submitted corrected Form 204 reports for
January 2013 - May 2013 that included accurate position reports for its relevant subsidiaries.
After the discovery of the improper filings, CHS updated its compliance procedures and
hired a permanent Trade Risk Compliance officer and Director of Enterprise Risk Management.

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

A, Statutory Background

Regulation 19.00(a)(1) requires that persons holding or controlling futures and options
positions in certain agricultural commodities that are reportable pursuant to Regulation
15.00(p)(2), and any part of which constitute bona fide hedging positions as defined in
Regulation 1.3(z), must file Form 204 reports showing the composition of the fixed price cash
position of each such commodity hedged (the “Form 204 commodities,” which include wheat,
corn, oats, soybeans, soybean oil and soybean meal). Reportable positions under Regulation
15.00(p)(2) are any combined futures and futures-equivalent option open contract position as
defined in Part 150 of the Regulations in any one month or in all months combined, either net
long or net short in any commodity on any one reporting market, which positions at the close of
the market on the last business day of the week exceed the net quantity limit in spot, single or in
all-months fixed in Regulation 150.2 for the Form 204 commodities.

Pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Act, liability as an aider and abettor requires proof that:
(1) the Act was violated, (2) the aider and abettor had knowledge of the wrongdoing underlying
the violations, and (3) the aider and abettor intentionally assisted the primary wrongdoer. See 7
U.S.C. § 13c(a) (2012); In re Nikkhah, [1999-2000 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH)
{ 28,129 at 49,888 n. 28 (CFTC May 12, 2000) (citing In re R & W Technical Services, Ltd.,
[1998-1999 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) § 27,582 at 47,746 (CFTC Mar. 16,
1999)); In re DiPlacido, CFTC Docket No. 01-23, 2008 WL 4831204 (CFTC Nov. 5, 2008).

B. Respondents’ Violations of Regulation 19.01

During the Relevant Period, CHS held reportable positions in the Form 204 commodities
and was required by Regulation 19.00(a)(1) to file Form 204 reports. Regulation 19.01 requires
Form 204 reports to show the quantities of the fixed price purchase and sale open cash positions
for each of the Form 204 commodities hedged.

During the Relevant Period, CHS, through CHS Hedging, submitted Form 204 reports on
behalf of CHS which did not accurately state the quantities of CHS’s fixed price open cash
positions as required by Regulation 19.01. Therefore, CHS violated Regulation 19.01.

Additionally, during the relevant period, CHS Hedging knowingly failed to obtain
updated fixed-price cash positions from at least one of CHS’s business units and created
incorrect monthly Form 204 reports. By submitting these incorrect Form 204 reports to the
Commission on behalf of CHS, CHS Hedging willfully aided and abetted CHS’s violations and,
pursuant to Section 13(a) is liable for such violations of Regulation 19.01 as a principal.
19.01.

A.
B.

V.

FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents violated Regulation

VI.

OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondents have submitted the Offer in which Respondents, without admitting or
denying the findings and conclusions herein:

Acknowledge receipt of service of this Order;

Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violations of or enforcement of this Order;

Waive:

1. __ the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2.  ahearing;

3. all post-hearing procedures;

4. judicial review by any court;

5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,
5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 148.1-30 (2014), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the

entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulate that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondents have consented in the Offer; and
E.

Consent, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:
1. makes findings by the Commission that Respondents violated Regulation 19.01;
2. orders Respondents to cease and desist from violating Regulation 19.01;

3. orders Respondents, jointly and severally, to pay a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of $1,000,000 (one million dollars) within ten (10) days of the date of
entry of this Order; and,

4. orders Respondents and their successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this
Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.
VII.
ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.
B.

Respondents shall cease and desist from violating Regulation 19.01.

Respondents, jointly and severally, shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
one million dollars ($1,000,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order
(the “CMP Obligation”). If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of
the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP
Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using
the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
§ 1961 (2012). Respondents shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer,
U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If
payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be
made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address
below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables --- AMZ 340
E-mail Box: 9-AMC-AMZ-AR-CFTC
DOT/FAA/MMAC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-7262

nikkigibson@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondents shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondents shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies Respondents and the name and docket
number of this proceeding. Respondents shall simultaneously transmit copies of the
cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20581, and to Alison Wilson, Chief Trial Attorney, Division of Enforcement, via email at
awilson@cftc.gov.

Cc. Respondents and their successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondents agree that neither they nor any of their successors
and assigns, agents or employees under their authority or control shall take any
action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or
conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this
Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision
shall affect Respondents’: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal
positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondents and their successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to
ensure that all of their agents and employees under their authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

2. Cooperation with the Commission: Respondents shall cooperate fully and
expeditiously with the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of
Enforcement, and any other governmental agency in this action, and in any
investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to the subject matter of
this action or any current or future Commission investigation related thereto, including
any matter in which the Respondents have previously provided information.

3. Partial Satisfaction: Respondents understands that any acceptance by the
Commission of partial payment of Respondents’ CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of their obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
Order or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
remaining balance.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christopher J. LAs

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: March 9, 2016
