Release Number 7191-15

  

June 24, 2015

CFTC Charges Illinois Resident Nick A. Wurl and His Company Ludiera Capital LLC with
Fraud and Misappropriation in $9 Million Scheme

Defendants allegedly defrauded at least 46 participants in an
investment pool

Wurl was charged with wire fraud in a related criminal action

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) filed a federal enforcement action in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against Defendants Nick A. Wurl and his company Ludiera Capital
LLC, both of Chicago, Illinois, charging them with fraud, misappropriation, and the issuance of false statements in
connection with an investment pool they operated that traded commodity futures contracts and options on futures
contracts. According to the CFTC Complaint, “In reality, the pool was little more than a shell company used to defraud
pool participants and enrich Defendants at their expense.”

On May 27, 2015, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), in a related criminal complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of Illinois, charged Wurl with wire fraud. In conjunction with that action, DO) obtained writs of
garnishment against known accounts in the names of Wurl and Ludiera.

The CFTC’s Complaint alleges that Defendants fraudulently solicited over $9 million from at least 46 investors for the
represented purpose of trading physical commodities, such as soybeans and other agricultural commodities, as well as
energy products. In their solicitations, Defendants fraudulently represented that (1) Defendants would only invest
participants’ funds in the buying and selling of physical commodities; (2) Defendants’ physical commodity trading was
generating profits for participants; (3) Defendants were not engaged in the trading of futures or options; (4) participants’
funds would be maintained in segregated accounts; and (5) the worst potential outcome for investors was O percent
return on investment.

According to the Complaint, and contrary to the represented investment strategy, Defendants never engaged in physical
commodity trading. Rather, the bulk of participants’ funds — over $6.8 million — was pooled and used by Defendants to
trade futures and options. Defendants never disclosed to participants the risk of trading futures and options and never
disclosed that a significant portion of participants’ funds would be used for trading futures and options. Further,
Defendants never disclosed that Defendants were sustaining significant trading losses. Rather, Defendants operated to
conceal their commingling and misappropriation of customer funds and trading losses by providing pool participants with
false reports and account statements showing fictitious profits.

The CFTC Complaint also alleges that Defendants misappropriated at least $600,000 of participants’ funds to pay down
personal credit card debt and purchase vehicles, among other things. Akin to a Ponzi scheme, and in order to further
disguise their trading losses and misappropriation, the Defendants also distributed approximately $1.8 million to pool
participants in redemptions, utilizing other pool participants’ principal to fund these payments.

In its continued litigation, the CFTC seeks restitution, disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, civil monetary penalties,
permanent registration and trading bans, and preliminary and permanent injunctions from further violations of the
federal commodities laws, as charged.

The CFTC thanks and acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this action are Rachel Hayes, Rebecca Jelinek, Stephen
Turley, Lauren Fulks, Diane Romaniuk, Peter Riggs, and Charles Marvine.

*K OK OK OOK OK OK
CFTC’s Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory, which warns customers about a type of fraud that involves individuals and firms, often
unregistered, offering investments in commodity pools.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.
Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: June 24, 2015
