UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

 

)
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE _ )
COMMISSION, )
100 F. Street, NE )
Washington, D.C. 20549-6030 )
)
Plaintiff, Case: 1:08-cv-02211
v. ) Assigned To : Kollar-Kotelly, Colleen
) Assign. Date : 12/22/2008
FIAT S.p.A. ) Description: General Civil
Via Nizza 250 )
Turin, Italy )
- )
and )
)-
CNH GLOBAL .N.V. )
World Trade Center, Amsterdam Airport)
Tower B, 10" Floor )
Schiphol Boulevard )
1118 BH Amsterdam )
The Netherlands. , )
Defendants. )
)
COMPLAINT
Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), alleges
that:

SUMMARY
1. . From approximately 2000 through 2003, Fiat S.p.A. (“Fiat”) and its .
subsidiary CNH Global N.V. (“CNH Global’) violated the books and records and internal
controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) when their
subsidiaries, agents and distributors made approximately $4.3 million in kickback

payments in connection with their sales of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the United
Nations (“U.N.”) Oil for Food Program. Fiat’s and CNH Global’s subsidiaries
authorized and paid kickbacks to Iraq in the form of “after-sales service fees” on sales of
its products to Iraq. Fiat and CNH Global knew or were reckless in not knowing that
‘kickbacks were paid or agreed to in connection with each of its subsidiaries’ transactions.
Fiat and CNH Global knew that such payments were prohibited by the Oil for Food
Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions on Iraq.

2. . The Oil for Food Program provided humanitarian relief to the Iraqi
population during the time that Iraq was subject to international trade sanctions. The
program required that Iraq could purchase necessary humanitarian goods and related —
services through a U.N. escrow account. However, the kickbacks paid in connection with
Fiat’s and CNH Global’s subsidiaries’ sales of goods to Iraq had the effect of diverting
funds out of the escrow account and were paid by third parties into Iraqi-controlled |
accounts at banks in countries such as Jordan.

3. Because their subsidiaries paid “after-sales service fees” to Iraq outside of
the confines of the UN. program, Fiat and CNH Global failed to accurately record in
their books and records the kickbacks that were authorized for payment to Iraq. Fiat and

- CNH Global also failed to devise and maintain systems of internal accounting controls to
detect and prevent such illicit payments.

4. As a result of this conduct, Fiat and CNH Global violated Sections
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange

Act”) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)].
JURISDICTION

5. -This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. Fiat and CNH
Global, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate
commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection
with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.

6. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] because Fiat and CNH Global do business in this judicial district and
certain acts or transactions constituting the violations by Fiat and CNH Global occurred
in this district. |

DEFENDANTS

7. Fiat S.p.A. (“Fiat”), an Italian company headquartered in Turin, Italy, isa
provider of automobiles, agricultural and construction equipment, trucks, and commercial
vehicles. Throughout the relevant period, Fiat’s American Depositary Receipts were
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol up IA.” In August 2007, Fiat delisted its ADRs and
applied for termination of its registration with the Commission, which was effective in
November 2007. During the Oil for Food Program, Fiat subsidiary IVECO S.p.A. sold
| trucks to Iraq. Fiat subsidiary CNH Global was involved in sales of agricultural and |
construction equipment and parts to Iraq during the Oil for Food Program through two of
its subsidiaries. |

8. CNH Global N.V. (“CNH Global”), a Dutch company headquartered in

Amsterdam, The Netherlands, is a provider of agricultural and construction equipment.
CNH Global is a majority-owned subsidiary of Fiat and is controlled by F iat Netherlands
Holding N.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Fiat. Throughout the relevant period, CNH
Global’s American Depository Receipts were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act and listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CNH.”
Two CNH Global subsidiaries, Case France S.A. and New Holland Italia S.p.A., were
involved in sales of agricultural and construction equipment and parts to Iraq during the
Oil for Food Program. |
RELEVANT ENTITIES

9. IVECO S.p.A. (“IVECO”), is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fiat and is
headquartered in Turin, Italy. IVECO’s sales of fuel tankers, trucks, and spare parts
during the Oil for Food Program were conducted out of the company’s IVECO Egypt
office. |

10. Case France S.A. (“Case France”), now known as CNH France S.A., is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of CNH Global and is headquartered in Plessis-Belleville,
France. Case France sold construction equipment, including wheel loaders and
excavators, to Iraq. |

11. New Holland Italia S.p.A. (“New Holland”), currently known as CNH
Italia S.p.A., is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CNH Global and is headquartered in
~ Modena, Italy. New Holland sold agricultural equipment, including tractors, to Iraq.

FACTS

I. The United Nations Oil for Food Program

12. On August 2, 1990, the government of Iraq, under Saddam Hussein,

invaded Kuwait. Four days later the United Nations Security Council voted to enact U.N.
Resolution 661, which prohibited member states from trading in any Iraqi commodities
or products. The United Nations continued to enforce these sanctions until 2003.

13. On April 14, 1995, the United Nations Security Council adopted
Resolution 986, which authorized the Government of Iraq to sell oil on the condition that
the proceeds of all of its oil sales be deposited in a bank account monitored by the United
Nations and used only to purchase designated humanitarian goods for the benefit of the
Iraqi people. In May 1996, the Government of Iraq entered into a written Memorandum
of Understanding to implement Resolution 986.

14. The United Nations Office of Iraq Program, Oil for Food (the “Oil for
Food Program” or “Program”) was subsequently established to administer Iraq’s sale of
oil and purchase of humanitarian goods by Iraq. A special bank account was established
at a bank in New York (the “UN Escrow Account”) to handle the transactions. ‘The
United Nations’ economic sanctions on Iraq remained in place for all trade and
transactions not authorized by. the Oil for Food Program.

15. Starting in the middle of 2000, the Iraqi government made a concerted
effort to subvert the Program by demanding secret kickbacks from its humanitarian goods
suppliers. Although contracts entered into pursuant to the Program were subject -to UN
review and approval, the Program gave Iraq discretion to select the companies from
which it purchased goods. A humanitarian supplier would submit a bid for the sale of its
goods. After the Iraqi ministry would accept the bid, the-ministry would inform the
supplier of the requirement that the supplier make a secret payment in the form of an
“After-Sales Service Fee” (““ASSF”) to Iraq in order to win the contract. The Iraqi

ministry would also inform the supplier that the ASSF would have to be paid prior to the
goods entering into the country, or the goods would be stopped at the border until the
_ASSF payment was paid.

16. Initially, when this scheme first began, suppliers met with the Iraqi
ministries in person and signed a side agreement acknowledging that the supplier would
make the illicit payment.' By October 2000, this fee was usually ten percent of the total
contract value. Later in the scheme, everyone understood that the ten percent would have
to be paid. Thus, side agreements were no longer needed -- the supplier would simply
increase its original contract bid by ten percent.

17.- The supplier would then submit its contract with the inflated contract price
to the UN for approval, and not disclose the ten percent illicit payment, which was in
violation of the Program rules. The supplier would pay the ASSF to Iraq prior to
shipping its goods. Afterwards, the UN Escrow Account would pay the supplier the
inflated contract price for the goods, thus, unknowingly reimbursing the supplier for the
ten percent that the supplier had already provided to Iraq. Asa result of this conduct, the
UN Escrow Account lost the benefit of more than $1 billion.

18. After the United States invaded Iraq in March 2003, at the request of the
provisional government, the UN ceased Iraq’s ASSF scheme. The UN required that all
pending contracts that had been inflated by ten percent be amended to reflect the true
contract value of the goods.

II. Fiat’s and CNH Global’s Subsidiaries Make Illicit Payments to Iraq
19. Fiat’s and CNH Global’s subsidiaries sell automobiles, trucks, agricultural

and construction equipment, and commercial vehicles. While the Oil for Food Program

 

! The side agreement was not provided to the UN when the Oil for Food contract was submitted and
approved. This was in violation of the Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions against Iraq.
was in effect, IVECO, a Fiat subsidiary, participated in the sales of tankers, trucks, and
other equipment to Iraq and two of CNH Global’s subsidiaries, Case France and New
Holland, participated in the sales of tractors, harvesters and other equipment to Iraq
through the Program. During this time period, Iraq’s various ministries required the
payment of ASSFs in connection with winning contracts to supply humanitarian goods
under the Program. IVECO, Case France, and New Holland acquiesced to the demands
of the Iraqi ministries and paid illegal ASSFs through third-party agents and distributors.
Fiat’s and CNH Global’s total gains from contracts in which ASSF payments and other
illicit payments were paid or authorized amounted to $5,309,632.

A. IVECO Makes $3.1 Million in ASSF Payments

1. IVECO’s Direct Sales to Iraq |

20. During the Oil for Food Program, IVECO used its IVECO Egypt office
to enter into four direct transactions with Iraqi ministries, including the Ministry of Oil,
for the sale of commercial vehicles and spare parts. IVECO Egypt used a Lebanese agent
to. facilitate each transaction. Between October 2000 and January 2001, [VECO entered
into four contracts under the Program that involved the payment of ASSFs.

21. + After agreeing to make the illicit ASSF payments, IVECO Egypt
employees developed a scheme to conceal the kickbacks. The kickbacks were disguised

‘as legitimate agent commissions. Accordingly, IVECO Egypt increased the Lebanese

agent’s commissions on sales to Iraq from five percent to between fifteen and twenty
percent of the total contract price. The Lebanese agent would then pass the ASSF
payments to the Iraqi ministries on TVECO’s behalf and then submit an invoice to

IVECO for payment of the falsely inflated agency commissions. Internal IVECO
financial documents for three Oil for Food contracts show line items for “contract pay-
back” or “restituzione” (translated as “pay-back”) due to the Lebanese agent, in addition
to the legitimate components of the agent’s commissions. These line items represent the
Lebanese agent’s payment of ASSFs on IVECO’s behalf. IVECO Egypt personnel held
the Lebanese agent’s invoices for approximately one year prior to submitting them to
IVECO’s headquarters in Italy for payment. Despite the delay in submitting the invoices,
and the unusually large commissions, the invoices were paid.

22. | In connection with one of the contracts, IVECO initially set up a bank
guarantee in the amount of the ASSF in favor of a Dubai-based firm that operated as a
front company for the Iraqi government. IVECO did not complete the bank guarantee
and, instead, [VECO’s Lebanese agent established an identical bank guarantee to conceal
IVECO’s role. A line item identified as “pay-back” in internal (VECO documents
corresponds to the amount of the bank guarantee the Lebanese agent paid to Iraqi
ministries on IVECO’s behalf.

23. | Altogether, IVECO paid approximately $1,803,880 in ASSFs on the four
contracts. In order to generate funds to pay the ASSFs and to conceal those payments,
IVECO and the Lebanese agent inflated the price of the U.N. contracts by ten to fifteen
percent before submitting them to the U.N. for approval. The ASSF payments were

‘incorrectly recorded as legitimate commissions on the company’s books and records.
2. | IVECO’s Indirect Sales to Iraq

24. Beginning in November 2000, IVECO changed its method of doing

business for future contracts. [VECO decided to use the Lebanese agent its distributor,

rather than simply its agent. As a distributor, the Lebanese agent purchased equipment
directly from IVECO for its own account. The Lebanese agent, in turn, then sold IVECO
trucks and parts to Iraq and submitted its own inflated contracts to the U.N. Thus,
IVECO was no longer the party named on the inflated contracts to the U.N., but rather,
the Lebanese agent was the named party. With IVECO’s knowledge, the Lebanese agent
then facilitated payment of the ASSF to Iraq. Through this mechanism, IVECO was able
to move its goods into Iraq, but keep itself distanced from any involvement in the ASSF
scheme. IVECO personnel knew or should have known from their direct sales to Iraq
that the Lebanese agent’s sales of IVECO products included ASSF payments.

25. In correspondence with the U.N., the Lebanese agent conceded that it paid
ASSFs to Iraqi ministries on twelve contracts that involved the sale of IVECO products.
Specifically, the Lebanese agent confirmed that the payments were made through Al
Rafidain Bank in “amounts equivalent to ten percent of the value of [the] contracts[.]”

26. In connection with these twelve contracts, ASSFs totaling $1,364,080 in
ASSFs were made by the Lebanese agent. IVECO either knew or was reckless in not
knowing that the Lebanese agent was making improper payments on the twelve contracts.

B. Case France Makes $187,720 in ASSF Payments

27. In mid-2001, Case France, a subsidiary of CNH Global, engaged in three
direct transactions with Iraqi ministries, including the Ministry of Oil; for the sale of
construction equipment under the Oil for Food Program. Case France’s Regional Sales
Marketing Manager for the Middle East region learned of the ASSF requirement during a
trip to Iraq. On a separate occasion, armed Iraqi officials approached Case France’s
Baghdad facility and reiterated the request for kickbacks to the Case France employees.

Case France then entered into a side letter agreeing to pay kickbacks. The side letter was
not disclosed to the U.N., nor was the agreement to pay the kickbacks. Case France
employees drafted profitability analyses for two of the three contracts, which listed aten -
percent ASSF payment and a five percent commission payable to a Lebanese company
that was to act as a distributor in connection with the sales. The Lebanese company
funneled the ASSF payments to the Iraqi ministries on. behalf of Case France.

28. Case France paid ASSFs totaling approximately $187,720. To generate
funds to pay the kickbacks and to conceal those payments, Case France and its agent
inflated the price of the U.N. contracts by approximately ten percent before submitting
them to the U.N. for approval. Case France inflated its commission payments to its
Lebanese distributor, and the Lebanese distributor forwarded these excess funds to Iraq
as kickbacks. Case France did not record the kickbacks on its books and records.

Cc. New Holland Makes More Than $1 Million in ASSF Payments and
Authorizes $312,198 in Additional ASSF Payments

1. New Holland’s Direct Sales to Iraq
29. Between December 2000 and May 2001, New Holland engaged in two

contracts for the sale of tractors under the Oil for Food Program. In early 2001, New
Holland personnel learned that Iraqi.officials were demanding kickbacks in connection
with sales under the Program. With a Jordanian dealer acting as its agent, New Holland
entered into two direct contracts under the program between December 2000 and May
2001. On one of the contracts, New Holland obtained a bank guarantee in favor of the
Iraqi ministry in March 2001 in the amount of the ASSF. The-bank guarantee and its
payment were not disclosed to the U.N.

. 30. To generate funds to pay the kickbacks to the Iraqi government and to

conceal those payments, New Holland inflated the price of the contracts by

10
approximately ten percent before submitting them to the U.N. for approval. New Holland
did not disclose to the U.N. the fact that the contracts were inflated or the intent to pay
illicit ASSFs.

31. | ASSF payments totaling $447,116 were made by New Holland. The |
payments of the ASSFs-were recorded as cost of goods sold in New Holland’s books and
records.

2. New Holland’s Indirect Sales to Iraq

32. Soon after the two direct contracts were negotiated, New Holland ceased
entering into direct sales to Iraq. Several months later, after May 2001, New Holland
employees were approached by Iraqi officials who inquired why the company was no
longer conducting business in Iraq. Shortly after this discussion, New Holland resumed
business in Iraq. However, New Holland changed its method of doing business for these
future contracts in an effort to distance itself from the payment of improper ASSFs. New
Holland decided to make the Jordanian dealer its distributor, rather than simply its agent.
As a distributor, the Jordanian dealer purchased equipment directly from New Holland
for its own account. The Jordanian dealer, in turn, then sold New Holland products to
Iraq and submitted its own inflated contracts to the U.N. Thus, New Holland was no
longer the party named on the inflated contracts to the U.N., but rather, the Jordanian
dealer was the named party. With New Holland’s knowledge, the Jordanian dealer then
facilitated payment of the ASSF to Iraq. Through this mechanism, New Holland was
able to move its goods into Iraq, but keep itself distanced from any involvement in the
ASSF scheme. Correspondence from the Jordanian dealer toa New Holland employee

dated November 2001 shows that the Jordanian dealer could make the payment rather

1]
than New Holland. The correspondence discusses the fact that New Holland’s direct
sales to Iraq remain impracticable as long as the “famous 10” (a reference to the ten
percent kickback) was required.

33. | The Jordanian dealer entered into three contracts with Iraqi ministries for
the sale of New Holland products and ASSF payments totaling $576,861 were made by
the Jordanian dealer. An additional $312,198 ASSF payment was authorized by the
Jordanian dealer, but never received by Iraq. New Holland either knew or was reckless

_in not knowing that the Jordanian dealer was making improper payments on the three
contracts.
Ill. Fiat and CNH Global’s Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

34. Fiat and CNH Global failed to maintain a system of intérnal controls
sufficient to ensure that the companies’ transactions under the Oil for Food Program were -
executed in accordance with management’s authorization and to maintain accountability
for the company’s assets. As discussed above, Fiat’s subsidiaries, including CNH
Global, made numerous illicit payments that contravened the Oil for Food Program, U.S.
and international trade sanctions, and its own internal FCPA and anti-bribery policies.

35.  Innine transactions that Fiat and CNH Global subsidiaries entered into
directly with Iraqi ministries, a portion of the subsidiaries’ sales price for goods to Iraq
constituted ASSF payments in violation of UN regulations and trade sanctions, and also
Fiat’s and CNH Global’s FCPA and anti-bribery policies. In fifteen additional
transactions entered into by distributors, Fiat’s subsidiaries, including CNH Global, knew
or were reckless in not knowing that the distributors were paid ASSFs and submitted

inflated contracts to the UN In fact, in each of those instances, the Fiat entity specifically

12
changed its business relationship with its distributor in an effort to conceal their
involvement in the sales of its products to Iraq in which ASSF payments were made.
Moreover, as evidenced by the extent and duration of the improper ASSF payments made
by IVECO, Case France, New Holland, and their agents and distributors, the improper
recording of these payments in the company's books and records, and the failure of Fiat’s
and CNH Global's management to detect these irregularities, Fiat and CNH Global failed
to devise and maintain an effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect these
violations of the FCPA, as required by Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).

Vv.  Fiat’s and CNH Global’s Failure to Properly Maintain Its Books and
Records |

36. As described above, Fiat’s and CNH Global’s accounting for its Oil for
_ Food transactions failed properly to record the nature of the companies’ kickback
payments. On at least nine transactions, a portion of Fiat’ s and CNH Global’s
subsidiaries’ sales price for goods to Iraq constituted ASSF payments in violation of U.N.
regulations and trade sanctions, and also Fiat’s and CNH Global’s FCPA and anti-bribery
policies. In the instances in which the ASSF payments were made, either directly by a
Fiat or CNH Global subsidiary, or by an agent or distributor, the Fiat or CNH Global
. subsidiary failed to properly designate those payments, characterizing some as
commission payments, and others as ordinary business expenses. Thus, Fiat and CNH
Global failed to accurately record these payments in its books, records, and accounts to

fairly reflect the transactions.

13
CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

37. Paragraphs 1 through 36 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

38. As described above, Fiat and CNH Global, through their officers, agents,
consultants, representatives, and subsidiaries, failed to keep books, records, and accounts,
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and
dispositions of its assets.

39. By reason of the foregoing, Fiat and CNH Global violated Section
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

SECOND CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act] ©

40. Paragraphs 1 through 39 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

41.  Asdescribed above, with respect to illicit payments made in connection
with Fiat’s subsidiaries’, including CNH Global, and their distributors’ sales to Iraq, Fiat
and CNH Global failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) payments were made in accordance
with management’s general or specific authorization; and (ii) payments were recorded as
necessary to maintain accountability for its assets.

42. By reason of the foregoing, Fiat and CNH Global violated Section

13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

14
PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
- judgment:
A. Permanently restraining and enjoining Fiat and CNH Global from
violating Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act . [15 USC.
§§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)]; |
B. Ordering Fiat, on behalf of Fiat and CNH Global, to disgorge ill-gotten _
gains, with prejudgment interest, wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct;
C. Ordering Fiat, on behalf of Fiat and CNH Global, to pay civil penalties
pursuant to Section 21(4)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; and

‘D. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: Doe AA ,2008

Respectfully submitted,

(nem Phun Co

Cheryl J. Seppe (D.C. Bar No. 422175)
Tracy L- Pric
Kelly G. Kilroy _

Attorneys for Plaintiff,

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE

Mail Stop 6030 SPII

Washington, DC 20549-6030

(202) 551-4403 (Scarboro)

15
