 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSIOT

 

Office of Proceedings
Proceedings Clerk

\ 2:13 pm, Sep 17, a,

 

 

 

In the Matter of

Australia and New Zealand CFTC Docket No. 15-31

Banking Group Ltd.,

Respondent.

A A a a a a 4 444

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from at least March 1, 2013 through November 30, 2014 (the “Relevant Period”), Australia and
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (“ANZ” or “Respondent’”) violated Section 4s(f) of the
Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 6s(f) (2012) and Commission Regulations
(“Regulations”) 20.4 and 20.7, 17 C.F.R §§ 20.4 and 20.7 (2014). Therefore, the Commission
deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and
hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein,
and to determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and
acknowledges service of this Order.’

 

1 : : : : . .
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding and in any

other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party; provided, however, that
Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer or the findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the
Offer, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission, other than a proceeding in bankruptcy
or to enforce the terms of this Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other proceeding.
Hil.
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

Pursuant to Section 4s(f), 7 U.S.C. § 6s(f) and Regulation 20.4 17 C.F.R. § 20.4, Swap
Dealers that meet certain requirements are required to file daily large trader reports for reportable
positions in physical commodity swaps (“LTRs”), which are populated with specific data as
directed by the Commission. The LTRs must also conform to the form and manner for reporting
and submitting information as set forth in Regulation 20.7, 17 C.F.R. § 20.7.

During the Relevant Period, ANZ filed LTRs which failed to comply with certain
Commission requirements, On Jan. 2, 2014, the Commission’s Division of Market Oversight
issued a special call notice identifying multiple apparent instances of such noncompliance in
ANZ’s LTRs (“Special Call’). After receiving this Special Call, ANZ implemented changes to
its reporting procedures and submitted corrected historical reports.

B. RESPONDENT

Respondent is headquartered in Australia and operates in various locations worldwide.
Primarily in connection with its rates and foreign-exchange businesses, Respondent engages in
swap transactions with U.S.-based entities and has been registered with the Commission as a
Swap Dealer (“SD”) since January 2013.

C. FACTS

Respondent registered as a Swap Dealer on January 29, 2013. Accordingly, during the
Relevant Period, Respondent was, required to submit LTRs in the form and manner determined
by the Commission.” Respondent submitted LTRs that routinely contained errors. For example,
errors identified in ANZ’s LTRs included the following: (1) prior to September 2013, the
Reports did not identify any underlying commodity; (2) throughout the relevant period, the
Reports routinely populated the field for “Commodity Reference Price” in a format other than
the one provided by the Commission publication: Large Trader Reporting for Physical
Commodity Swaps: Division of Market Oversight Guidebook for Part 20 Reports (“Part 20
Guidebook”); (3) in some cases, ANZ reported certain non-zero positions with a value of zero;
(4) throughout the relevant time period, ANZ reported its positions in units of the underlying
commodity rather than in futures contract equivalents; and (5) throughout the relevant time
period, ANZ submitted reports misidentifying counterparty positions as its own positions as the
principal. ANZ also failed to submit reports for certain days in July and September 2013.

 

, The Part 20 rules became effective on September 20, 2011. Following the promulgation of the Part 20
rules, the Commission’s Division of Market Oversight, through a series of no-action letters, provided temporary
relief from these reporting requirements and certain safe harbor provisions. However, by March 1, 2013, such relief
was no longer available and ANZ was required to be in full compliance with the Part 20 reporting requirements.

 
Due to certain of these errors, ANZ was inaccurately reporting its positions. For
example, in its LTR for August 1, 2013 ANZ reported its positions with respect to CBOT corn in
units of the underlying commodity (i.e., in bushels of corn rather than in the equivalent number
of futures contracts, each of which represents 5,000 bushels of corn) and misidentified
counterparty positions as its own. Consequently, ANZ reported a position more than 5,000 times
its actual size. Accordingly, Respondent’s LTRs did not comply with the requirements
governing Part 20 Reports, which are set forth in Regulations 20.4 and 20.7, 17 C.F.R. §§ 20.4
and 20.7, in conjunction with further instructions provided in the Part 20 Guidebook.

In accepting Respondent’s Offer, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s cooperation
in this matter. Throughout the Relevant Period, ANZ communicated with DMO regarding issues
with its LTRs. In communications during January 2014, in response to the Special Call,
Respondent represented to DMO that it had analyzed its past reports, and made modifications to
its reporting system as necessary to comply with its LTR reporting requirements. ANZ has self-
reported and corrected additional errors as they were identified, and submitted corrected
historical LTRs.

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

Pursuant to Section 4s(f)(1)(A) of the Act: “Each registered swap dealer and major swap
participant... shall make such reports as are required by the Commission by rule or regulation
regarding the transactions and positions and financial condition of the registered swap dealer or
major swap participant. 7 U.S.C. § 6s(f). Regulation 20.4(c), 17 C.F.R. 20.4(c) (2014) provides
certain enumerated data elements which must be included in a Swap Dealer’s data report. These
data elements include, among others: the commodity underlying the reportable positions, the
commodity reference price, long paired swap positions and short paired swap positions, and an
identifier indicating that a principal or counterparty position is being reported.

Large Trader Reporting for physical commodity swaps is essential to the Commission’s
ability to conduct effective surveillance of markets in U.S. physical commodity futures and
economically equivalent swaps. Failure to comply with the reporting specifications set forth by
the Commission hinders the Commission’s ability to efficiently process and effectively utilize
this critical data.

Regulation 20.7, 17 C.F.R. 20.7 (2014) provides, in relevant part: “Unless otherwise
instructed by the Commission, a clearing organization or reporting entity shall submit data
records and any other information required under this part to the Commission ... (a) Using the
format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission procedures approved in writing by the
Commission.” The prescribed manner and form of reporting and submitting swaps data is
provided in the Part 20 Guidebook.’

 

; As provided for in Regulation 20.8, 17 C.F.R. § 20.8 (2014) the Commission delegated certain authority to
the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or others as the Director may designate from time to time. This
delegated authority includes the authority pursuant to Regulation 20.7 for providing instructions or determining the
format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission procedures for submitting data records and any other
information required under [part 20].”

 
Respondent registered as a Swap Dealer on January 29, 2013 and consequently was
required to submit Part 20 Reports during the Relevant Period. Reports submitted by
Respondent omitted required data elements and reported certain data in a manner that did not
conform to the specifications required by the Commission. Accordingly, Respondent’s reports
did not comply with the requirements, and were in violation of Commission Regulations 20.4
and 20.7.

Therefore, ANZ violated Section 4s(f), 7 U.S.C. § 6s(f), and Regulations 20.4 and 20.7,
17 C.F.R. §§ 20.4 and 20.7.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent has violated Section 4s(f)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6s(f) (2012), and Commission Regulations 20.4 and 20.7, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 20.4 and 20.7 (2014).

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission to all the matters set forth in this Order
and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based on
violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
(1) the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
(2) a hearing;
(3) all post-hearing procedures;
(4) judicial review by any court;

(5) any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

(6) any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2014), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s Regulations,
17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1 et seg. (2014), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

 
(7) any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub, L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat. 847,

857-68 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112, 204-205
(2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

(8) any claims of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this proceeding or
the entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

D. Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of
the findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;
and

E. Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order
that:

(1) makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Section 4s(f) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6s(f), and Commission Regulations 20.4 and 20.7, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 20.4 and 20.7 (2014);

(2) orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Section 4s(f) of the Act, 7
ULS.C. § 6s(f), and Commission Regulations 20.4 and 20.7, 17 C.F.R. $§ 20.4
and 20.7 (2014);

(3) orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $150,000,
plus post-judgment interest, within ten (10) days of the date of the entry of this
Order;

(4) orders Respondent to comply with the conditions, undertakings, and
representations consented to in the Offer and set forth in Part VII of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

 
VIL.
ORDER
Accordingly, [T IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

. ANZ shall cease and desist from violating Section 4s(f) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6s(f)(2012),
and Commission Regulations 20.4 and 20.7, 17 C.F.R. §§ 20.4 and 20.7 (2014);

. ANZ shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000) (the “CMP Obligation”), plus post-judgment interest, within ten (10)
days of the date of the entry of the Order, If the Restitution Obligation is not paid in full
within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the Order, then post-judgment interest shall
accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be
determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of the Order
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012), ANZ shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic
funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank
money order, If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer,
Respondent shall make the payment payable to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AM7Z-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki Gibson or
her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall fully comply
with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation
with a cover letter that identifies Respondent and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the
form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21" Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

. ANZ and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions and
undertakings set forth in the Offer:

 
L.

Public Statements: ANZ agrees that neither it nor any of its
successors, assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control
shall take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or
indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order, or creating, or
tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect
Respondent’s (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal
positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondent and its successors and assigns shall undertake all steps
necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under its
authority or control understand and comply with this agreement.

 

Cooperation with the Commission: ANZ shall cooperate fully and
expeditiously with the Commission, including the Commission’s
Division of Enforcement, and any other governmental agency in this
action, and in any investigation, civil litigation, or administrative
matter related to the subject matter of this action or any current or
future Commission investigation related thereto. As part of such
cooperation, Respondent agrees to:

a. Comply fully, promptly, completely, and truthfully, subject to any legally
recognized privilege, with any inquiries or requests for information and
documents;

b, Provide authentication of documents and other evidentiary material; and

c, Use its best efforts to produce any current (as of the time of the request)
officer, director, employee, or agent of Respondent, regardless of the
individual’s location and at such location that minimizes Commission
travel expenditures, to provide assistance at any trial, proceeding, or
Commission investigation related to the subject matter of this proceeding,
including but not limited to, requests for testimony, depositions, and/or
interviews, and to encourage them to testify completely and truthfully in
any such proceeding, trial or investigation.

Partial Satisfaction: ANZ understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of any partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall
not be deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to
this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment
of any remaining balance.

Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as ANZ satisfies in full its CMP
Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Respondent shall provide written
notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to its telephone
number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

 
5. Representations: In its Offer, ANZ represents to the Commission that
it has reviewed and revised its large trader reporting systems to
address the errors identified during the Relevant Period. ANZ has also
submitted corrected reports to the Commission. ANZ represents that it
will continue to monitor its LTRs and cooperate with DMO to ensure
compliance with the Commission’s LTR data requirements.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective on this date.

Dated: September 17, 2015

By the Commission

#

     

  

Ebb) | DLA
Christopher J* Kirkpatrick

Secretary of the Commission

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

 
