Release Number 7650-17

November 22, 2017

CFTC Releases Annual Enforcement Results for Fiscal Year 2017

Agency Brought 49 Enforcement Actions and Obtained Orders Imposing $413 Million in
Monetary sanctions

CFTC Enforcement Activity Includes Significant Anti-Manipulation and Spoofing
Enforcement Actions, Integration of Market Surveillance Unit, Additional Protection for
Whistleblowers, and Enhanced Enforcement Tools

Washington, DC — The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today released the agency’s enforcement
results for fiscal year (FY) 2017. In the fiscal year that ended September 30, 2017, the CFTC brought 49 enforcement-
related actions, which included significant actions to root out manipulation and spoofing and to protect retail investors
from fraud. The CFTC also pursued significant and complex litigation, including cases charging manipulation, spoofing,
and unlawful use of customer funds. The CFTC obtained orders totaling $412,726,307 in restitution, disgorgement and
penalties.

Specifically, in the fiscal year, the CFTC obtained $333,830,145 in civil monetary penalties and $78,896,162 million in
restitution and disgorgement orders. Of the civil monetary penalties imposed, the CFTC collected and deposited at the
U.S. Treasury more than $265 million.

In addition to its enforcement actions, the CFTC also implemented enhancements to increase the effectiveness and
strength of the agency’s enforcement program. New rules and procedures were put in place to better protect
whistleblowers and to further incentivize whistleblowers to come forward. The CFTC also realigned the market
surveillance unit under the Division of Enforcement (DOE). Under the new alignment, the market surveillance unit
conducts market analysis to confirm market integrity and identifies areas that may warrant enforcement inquiry. DOE
also issued new cooperation advisories, which brings DOE’s cooperation program in line with other law enforcement
agencies and will serve as a powerful enforcement tool going forward. Each of these developments will substantially
strengthen the CFTC’s enforcement program.

“By enforcing the law and punishing wrongdoing in our markets, the CFTC’s enforcement program is vital to the CFTC’s
mission to protect from harm both customers and the integrity of the derivatives markets,” said Chairman J. Christopher
Giancarlo. “The work of the enforcement program, as reflected both in the significance of the actions brought and in the
innovation and enhancements implemented, sends a message to the public that the CFTC will continue to vigorously
enforce our laws, and that the agency’s enforcement staff is well equipped to respond to the new challenges presented
by our evolving markets.”

“The success of the CFTC’s enforcement program during the past year is a tribute to the support of enforcement matters
by the Commission and also to the professionalism and hard work of its enforcement staff,” said James McDonald, CFTC’s
Director of Enforcement. “The CFTC brought significant enforcement actions, and has also laid the ground work for future
success. The integration of the market surveillance unit into the Division of Enforcement, the strengthening of our
whistleblower protections, and the development of our cooperation program will open new avenues through which we
can identify misconduct, hold wrongdoers accountable, and deter future violations of the law.”

During FY 2017 the CFTC, through DOE, continued its successful benchmark rate anti-manipulation enforcement; brought
significant actions to combat disruptive trading practices, including spoofing; and prosecuted retail fraud, including fraud
involving virtual currency markets.

DOE also continued its robust cooperation with foreign regulators and law enforcement officials to combat the
international components of many of its investigations. In addition, DOE continued and intensified its already close
cooperation with the criminal authorities by referring appropriate matters to its criminal enforcement counterparts for
consideration of criminal actions, including prison time for culpable individuals.

 

 

FY 2017 Enforcement Actions by Category

 

Manipulation, Attempted Manipulation, False Reporting, 12
Disruptive Trading

 

 

Protection of Customer Funds, Supervision and Financial 6
Integrity
Retail Fraud 20

 

Illegal Off-Exchange Contracts, Failure to Register 1

 

 

 

 
Other Trade Practice: Wash Trades, Fictitious Trades, Position |3
Limits, Trading Ahead

 

Reporting, Recordkeeping 7

 

Total Number of Enforcement Actions Brought 49

 

 

Notes: CFTC enforcement actions include 29 administrative cases,
17 civil injunctive cases and 3 non-prosecution agreements. The
manipulation, attempted manipulation, false reporting, and
disruptive trading actions included 8 actions involving spoofing
(including 3 non-prosecution agreements), 2 actions involving
attempted manipulation, 1 action involving both spoofing and
attempted manipulation, and 1 action involving a manipulative or
deceptive device. Some of the other enforcement actions involve
multiple types of charges, but are listed above by the primary
charges. For example: 3 retail fraud actions also involved illegal,
off-exchange transactions; and 4 actions against registrants
included a failure to supervise violations.

 

 

 

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: November 22, 2017
