Release Number 7228-15

s . ol,
“a a
- t : ¥ =k
aa ' Ts : se |
i r

  

(2a teal

September 11, 2015

CFTC Charges California Resident Hannes Tulving, Jr., through his company, The Tulving
Company, Inc., with Misappropriation and Fraudulent Solicitation in a $17.8 Million
Precious Metals Scheme

At Least 381 Customers Nationwide Allegedly Defrauded in the Scheme

Washington, DC — The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today filed a civil Complaint against
Defendants Hannes Tulving, Jr. of Newport Beach, California, and his company, The Tulving Company, Inc., charging
them with fraudulent solicitation and misappropriation in connection with the precious metals markets. Neither
Defendant has ever been registered with the CFTC.

In its enforcement action, the CFTC alleges that the Defendants fraudulently offered contracts of sale of commodities in
interstate commerce, namely, contracts for the sale of gold, silver, platinum, and palladium bullion and coin (precious
metals). In offering these contracts, the Defendants obtained and misappropriated at least $17.8 million from at least
381 customers located throughout the United States for the purchase and sale of precious metals, according to the
Complaint.

In their solicitations, the Defendants allegedly made false and fraudulent representations, including that The Tulving
Company was a highly reputable, stable, and established precious metals firm that delivered precious metals to
customers; that it bought and sold in excess of $2.1 billion in precious metals from 1999 through March 2013; and that
precious metals were shipped quickly to customers after placement of orders and receipt of customer funds. These
representations were false, according to the Complaint.

The Defendants allegedly purchased and sold little or no precious metals with the funds they collected from customers.
Instead, according to the Complaint, the Defendants defrauded customers by lying to them and misappropriating their
funds for improper and unauthorized uses, including for the Defendants’ own financial benefit.

To conceal their fraud, according to the Complaint, the Defendants made false and/or deceptive statements, including
falsely representing that (1) customers owned specific amounts of precious metals when, in fact, they did not, (2)
customers holdings in precious metals had significant value when, in fact, the non-existent holdings had no value
whatsoever, and (3) customers were realizing profits from their investments when, in fact, no profit whatsoever had been
realized.

In its continuing litigation, the CFTC seeks restitution to defrauded customers, disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, a civil
monetary penalty, permanent registration and trading bans, and a permanent injunction against future violations of
federal commodities laws, as charged.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Luke B. Marsh, Richard Foelber, Dmitriy
Vilensky, and Paul G. Hayeck.

*K OK OK OOK OK OK
CFTC’s Precious Metals Customer Fraud Advisory

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Precious Metals Fraud Advisory, which alerts customers to precious metals fraud and lists simple ways to spot precious
metals scams.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: September 11, 2015
