 

September 28, 2015

CFTC Orders Georgia Resident Michael E. Simmons and His Company Global Consortiums,
LLC to Pay Restitution and a Civil Monetary Penalty Totaling More than $589,000 for
Engaging in Foreign Exchange Commodity Pool Fraud

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today entered an Order requiring
Respondents Michael E. Simmons and Global Consortiums, LLC, both of Fayetteville, Georgia, jointly to pay a
$360,000 civil monetary penalty and restitution totaling $229,660 for committing fraud and misappropriation in
connection with operating a commodity pool that offered leveraged or margined off-exchange foreign currency (forex)
transactions. Simmons was the sole owner, president, and chief executive officer of Global Consortiums. Neither
Respondent has ever been registered with the CFTC.

The CFTC Order requires Simmons and Global Consortiums to cease and desist from further violations of the Commodity
Exchange Act and CFTC regulations, as charged, and permanently bans them from registering, trading, and engaging in
other CFTC-regulated activities.

According to the Order, from at least March 2010 through July 2012, Respondents fraudulently solicited and accepted at
least $435,985 from at least 10 individuals to participate in a commodity pool to trade forex, but never traded the
investors’ funds. Respondents created and distributed account statements to investors that falsely claimed that the
commodity pool had traded forex profitably. The Order further finds that instead of investing the funds, Respondents
misappropriated at least $217,160 of investors’ funds for non-investment purposes. Although Respondents later partially
repaid some of their investors, Respondents still owe investors $229,660, according to the Order.

Additionally, the Order finds that Global Consortiums operated as a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) without registering
as such, as required, and that Simmons acted as an unregistered Associated Person of that CPO.

The CFTC cautions victims that restitution orders may not result in the recovery of money lost because the wrongdoers
may not have sufficient funds or assets. The CFTC will continue to fight vigorously for the protection of customers and to
ensure the wrongdoers are held accountable.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Karin N. Roth, Christopher Giglio, Douglas K.
Yatter, Lenel Hickson, Jr., and Manal M. Sultan.

* OK KK OK XK

CFTC’s Foreign Currency (Forex) Fraud and Commodity Pool Fraud Advisories

The CFTC has issued several customer protection Fraud Advisories that provide the warning signs of fraud, including the
Foreign Currency Trading (Forex) Fraud Advisory, which states that the CFTC has witnessed a sharp rise in Forex trading
scams in recent years and helps customers identify this potential fraud.

The CFTC has also issued a Commodity Pool Fraud Advisory, which warns customers about a type of fraud that involves
individuals and firms, often unregistered, offering investments in commodity pools.

Customers can report suspicious activities or information, such as possible violations of commodity trading laws, to the
CFTC Division of Enforcement via a Toll-Free Hotline 866-FON-CFTC (866-366-2382) or file a tip or complaint online.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: December 20, 2017
