UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

In the Matter of:

 

ICE Futures U.S., Inc.,
CFTC Docket No. 15 - 17 Proceedings Clerk

LS 11:05 am, Mar 16, a,

 

 

Respondent.

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from at least in or about October 2012 to at least May 2014 (“Relevant Period’), ICE Futures
USS., Inc. (“Respondent”) violated Commission Regulations (“Regulations”) 16.00, 16.01, and
16.02, 17 C.F.R. §§ 16.00, 16.01, & 16.02 (2014). Therefore, the Commission deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein and to
determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

I.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (‘Offer’), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order’’) and
acknowledge service of this Order.

 

Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party; provided, however, that Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce
the terms of this Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other
proceeding.

 
TI.
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

ICE Futures U.S. is a designated contract market (“DCM”). As a DCM, ICE Futures
US. is required to submit certain trading and market-related reports and data to the Commission.
In particular, ICE Futures U.S. is required to submit, for each business day, clearing member
reports “showing for each clearing member, by proprietary and customer account,” certain
information for each future or option contract, including among other things, the quantity of
contracts currently open, the quantity of contracts bought and sold throughout the day, and the
quantity of delivery notices. 17 C.F.R. § 16.00. ICE Futures U.S. is also required to provide the
Commission permanent record data relating to trading volume, open contracts, prices, and
certain critical dates, and transaction-level trade data and related order information for each
futures or options contract. 17 C.F.R. §§ 16.01 and 16.02.

Reporting is at the heart of the Commission’s market and financial surveillance
programs, which are critical to the Commission’s mission to protect market participants and
promote market integrity. The Commission’s market surveillance programs analyze market data
to detect and prevent market disruptions and enforce speculative position limits. The
Commission’s financial surveillance programs use market data to measure the financial risks that
large contract positions may pose to Commission registrants and clearing organizations, All of
these programs, along with much of the Commission’s other work, rely on accurate and complete
market reports and data.

Throughout the Relevant Period (which consisted of approximately 325 reporting days),
ICE Futures U.S. failed to meet its reporting obligations to the Commission by submitting
reports and data that, in aggregate, contained thousands of errors and omissions. According to
ICE Futures U.S., these errors and omissions resulted primarily from technology upgrades and
data migration projects, and while they affected data provided to the Commission, they did not
affect data published by ICE Futures U.S. on its website. Many of the inaccurate and incomplete
reports made by ICE Futures U.S. occurred after Commission staff informed ICE Futures U.S. of
the reporting problems and requested that the problems be corrected. With respect to permanent
record data, ICE Futures U.S. failed to report any data (including delivery notices) for certain
expiring futures contracts after the last trading day, and it reported incorrect intraday futures
prices, numbers of delivery notices, option strike prices, and volumes for exchanges of futures.
ICE Futures U.S. also failed to submit clearing member reports for the expiring futures contract
after the last trading day, and it failed to submit any transaction-level data on six separate days
for certain energy contracts.

B. RESPONDENT

ICE Futures U.S. is and was, at all times during the Relevant Period, a Delaware
corporation, a board of trade designated as a contract market, and self-regulatory organization.
ICE Futures U.S. is located in New York, New York and lists approximately 500 futures and
options contracts on a wide range of products, including natural gas and power, agricultural
commodities, equity indexes, and currencies.

C, FACTS
l, Regulatory Requirements for DCM Reporting

The Commission oversees a comprehensive reporting system by which it collects
information on (1) the prices and volume of trading in the different futures and options markets;
(2) individual transactions in those markets; and (3) market participants. This information forms
the foundation of the Commission’s market and financial surveillance programs.

Each DCM is required to submit to the Commission clearing member reports for each
business day. Specifically, each DCM must submit:

The following information separately for futures by commodity and by future,
and, for options, by underlying futures contract (for options on futures contracts)
or by underlying commodity (for other commodity options), and by put, by call,
by expiration date, and by strike price: (1) The total of ail long open contracts and
the total of all short open contracts carried at the end of the day covered by the
report... .; (2) The quantity of contracts bought and the quantity of contracts sold
during the day of the report . . .; (4) The quantity of purchases of futures for
commodities or for derivatives positions and the quantity of sales of futures for
commodities or for derivative positions . . .; (5) For futures, the quantity of the
commodity for which delivery notices have been issued by the clearing
organization of the reporting market and the quantity for which notices have been
stopped during the day covered by the report.

17 C.F.R. § 16,00(a) (2014). For each clearing member, therefore, each DCM must report,
among other things, the number of open futures or option positions and the number of delivery
notices issued or stopped. Jd.

Each DCM also must submit to the Commission permanent record data, which consists of
summary data for each futures contract, option, swap, and option on swap, including the
following volume data:

(i) the option delta, where a delta system is used; (ii) the total gross open contracts
for futures, excluding those contracts against which delivery notices have been
stopped; (iii) for futures products that specify delivery, open contracts against
which delivery notices have been issued on that business day; (iv) the total
volume of trading, excluding transfer trades or office trades; ... (v) the total
volume of futures/options/swaps/swaptions exchanged for commodities or for
derivative positions that are included in the total volume of trading; and (vi) the
total volume of block trades included in the total volume of trading.

17 C.F.R. § 16.01(a) (2014). Permanent record data also includes specific price information,
reported separately for each futures contract, “by commodity and by futures expiration,” and for

 
each option, “by underlying futures contract[] for options on futures or by underlying commodity
for options on commodities, and by put, by call, by expiration date and by strike price.” 17
C.F.R. § 16.01(b)(1I)G@) & (2) (2014). Additionally, each DCM must submit, for the trading
session and for the opening and closing periods of trading:

(i) The opening and closing prices of each futures [or] option... ; (4) The price
that is used for settlement purposes, if different from the closing price; and (iit)
The lowest price of a sale or offer, whichever is lower, and the highest price of a
sale or bid, whichever is higher, that the reporting market reasonably determines
accurately reflects market conditions ....

17 C.F.R. § 16.01(b)(2). As such, for each contract, the Commission receives information about
open interest, delivery notices, and various price points.

Finally, each DCM is required to submit to the Commission certain transaction-level data
daily. 17 C.F.R. § 16.02. This data gives a transaction-by-transaction picture of what occurred
in each market that day, It includes all transactions that happened on any day, regardless of size.

The Commission uses the clearing member reports, permanent record data, and
transaction-level data, among other things, as part of its market and financial surveillance
programs, to detect and prevent situations that could pose a threat to the markets and to keep the
Commission informed of significant market developments. The effectiveness of the
Commission’s market and financial surveillance programs depends on accurate and timely
reporting from DCMs.

2. ICE Futures U.S.’s Data Reporting Errors

Beginning as early as October 2012 and continuing throughout 2013, Commission staff
identified a series of errors and omissions in ICE Futures U.S.’s clearing member reports,
permanent record data, and transaction-level data. In some instances, data was missing—such as
trading dates for which the Commission received no reports for ICE Futures U.S.’s energy
markets. In other instances, the errors only became apparent when Commission staff discovered
discrepancies between the transaction-level data and the summary data reported for certain
trading days. Commission staff identified further errors by detecting differences between the
data the Commission received and the data ICE Futures U.S. published on its website in its Daily
Market Reports. Finally, some errors were apparent on the face of the reported data (e.g., certain
natural gas settlement prices in October-November 2012 were reported at 1000 times their actual
level),

From October 2012 and continuing until April 2013, ICE Futures U.S. was engaged in
significant technology upgrades related to the Commission’s then-upcoming requirement of a
new data-reporting format and ICE Futures U.S.’s own transition of existing over-the-counter
energy swaps into listed energy futures. These projects involved migrating data from ICE
Futures U.S.’s old reporting system to a new system, and the associated technology upgrades
introduced software logic errors that resulted in most of the reporting errors and omissions made
by ICE Futures U.S. to the Commission.

 
These reporting errors and omissions cumulatively numbered in the thousands and
affected certain data in ICE Futures U.S.’s Part 16 reports for every reporting day over the
Relevant Period and included: |

e reporting incorrect high/low and open/close options prices in a variety of contracts,
including coffee, cocoa, sugar, cotton, frozen concentrated orange juice, and the U.S.
dollar index;

e reporting incorrect settlement prices in natural gas options;

® reporting incorrect strike prices or failing to report strike prices in certain natural gas
options;

e reporting inaccurate information in currency and cross-rate futures;

e reporting inaccurate delivery notices in numerous contracts, including coffee, cocoa,
cotton, and frozen concentrated orange juice;

® reporting inaccurate volumes in Exchange for Related Product trades;

e failing to report any information after the last trading day for certain futures contracts,
including clearing member reports for those dates; and

e failing to submit any transaction-level data for certain energy contracts.

3. ICE Futures U.S.’s Communications with the Commission Regarding Data
Reporting Deficiencies

At the beginning of the Relevant Period and at various times during 2013, Commission
staff notified ICE Futures U.S. about the data errors and omissions. ICE Futures U.S. responded
that its data reporting deficiencies would be corrected with the conversion to the new data-
reporting format that was set to be implemented by the Commission in September 2013 (but later
delayed), Commission staff represented to ICE Futures U.S. that continuing to report faulty data
in the interim was unacceptable, Nevertheless, ICE Futures U.S. continued to submit inaccurate
and incomplete reports. Further, even after the Commission implemented the new data-reporting
standards in February 2014, certain ICE Futures U.S. reports still contained previously identified
data errors; although, the quality of ICE Futures U.S.’s data reports overall did improve after the
_data-reporting conversion.

During the Relevant Period and extending through much of the Division of
Enforcement’s investigation of this matter, ICE Futures U.S. did not respond in a timely and
satisfactory manner to inquiries from Commission staff—including staff from the Division of
Market Oversight, the Office of Data Technology, and the Division of Enforcement—about these
data reporting issues. Eventually, ICE Futures U.S. did cooperate fully with the Division of
Enforcement’s investigation and took corrective actions to address these reporting deficiencies.
The Commission has taken that cooperation and those actions into account in settling this matter.
IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

ICE Futures U.S, violated Regulations 16.00, 16.01, and 16.02 when it submitted inaccurate
and incomplete reports and data during the Relevant Period. As described more fully in the
Regulatory Requirements for DCM Reporting section above, these Regulations require a DCM to
submit to the Commission daily clearing member reports (Regulation 16.00), permanent record data
(Regulation 16.01), and transaction-level data (Regulation 16.02). Inherent in these requirements is the
fundamental notion that all reports and data provided to the Commission must be accurate and
complete. See in re JP Morgan Securities LLC, CFTC No. 14-19 Guly 29, 2014); In re Bielfeldt,
CFTC No. 96-1 (Feb. 12, 1999),

The accuracy and completeness of these reports and data are critical to the Commission’s
mission to protect market participants and to ensure market integrity. See, e.g, Inre JP Morgan
Securities LLC, CFTC No. 14-19 (July 29, 2014); In re Newedge USA, LLC, CFTC No. 12-06 Jan. 9,
2012). The effectiveness of the Commission’s market and financial surveillance programs, as
well as other Commission work, hinge upon correct and thorough reporting data. Without
accurate and complete data, the Commission’s ability to detect and prevent market disruptions,
to enforce speculative position limits, and to measure the financial risks that large contract
positions may pose to Commission registrants and clearing organizations is compromised.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, ICE
Futures U.S, violated Regulations 16.00, 16.01, and 16.02.

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C, Waives:

1. the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

 
a hearing;
all post-hearing procedures;
judicial review by any court;

any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
US.C. § 504 (2006) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2006), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2011), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding;

any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1,

makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Regulations 16.00,
16.01, and 16.02;

orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Regulations 16.00, 16.01, and
16.02;

orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $3,000,000,
plus post-judgment interest;

orders Respondent to comply with the conditions and undertakings consented to in
the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.
Vi.
ORDER
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A, Respondent and its successors and assigns shall cease and desist from violating
Regulations 16.00, 16.01, and 16.02.

B. Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of three million dollars
($3,000,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (“CMP Obligation”).
Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning ten days from the
date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).
Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is
to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made
payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables --- AMZ 340
E-mail Box: 9-AMC-AMZ-AR-CFTC
DOT/FAA/MMAC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd,

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-5644

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions, Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

C, Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and
assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control shall take any action or
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or
conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this
Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision
shall affect Respondent’s: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal
positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondent and its successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to
ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under its authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by
the Commission of partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
remaining balance.

Staffing:

a. As a condition of the services agreement between Respondent and its
parent Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (“ICE”), ICE shall create and
maintain a new senior position of Chief Data Officer who will have direct
responsibility for systems and procedures relating to regulatory reporting;

b. As a condition of the services agreement between Respondent and ICE,
ICE shall hire and maintain at least three additional quality assurance staff
who will be dedicated to regulatory reporting. These quality assurance
staff will have dual-line reporting to both the Senior Director of Quality
Assurance in ICE’s technology group and to ICE’s Vice President of
Regulation;

Data Reconciliation:

a, Respondent shall undertake an internal review of its data submissions to
the Commission for purposes of identifying violations of Regulations
16.00, 16.01, and 16.02 from February 17, 2014 to the date of this Order.
This review shall consist of a statistically significant sample of data
provided by Respondent to the Commission and include a reconciliation of
Respondent’s summary data submissions and its transaction-level data, as
well as a reconciliation of all data Respondent provided to the
Commission with the data published in its Daily Market Reports on its
website. Respondent will produce a report detailing its findings to the
Commission within six months of the date of this Order.

b. Beginning one hundred and twenty days from the date of this Order,
Respondent shall, for every reporting day: (1) capture a statistically
significant number of individual product and instrument Daily Market
Report files published on its website and reconcile their contents with the
corresponding files provided to the Commission; and (2)(a) reconcile the
data within Respondent’s clearing providers’ (ICE Clear U.S.’s and ICE
Clear Europe’s) systems and ICE’s post-trade and clearing central data
repository (the “Data Warehouse”); (b) reconcile relevant data between
Respondent’s trading system and the Data Warehouse; and (c) reconcile
relevant data between the Data Warehouse and Respondent’s Part 16
reports. Respondent shall maintain logs of any error messages resulting
from such reconciliations and shall provide such logs to the Commission
within two business days of receipt of a request by the Commission.

5, Future Cooperation with the Commission: Respondent shall cooperate fully and
expeditiously with the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of
Enforcement, and any other governmental agency in this action, and in any
investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to the subject matter
of this action or any current or future Commission investigation related thereto.
This cooperation shall include correcting errors or omissions in data provided to
the Commission pursuant to ICE Futures U.S.’s Part 16 obligations within one
week of discovery or notification of the errors or omissions, or in the event such
corrections will take more than a week’s time, reporting to the Commission why
additional time will be necessary.

6. Certificate of Compliance: Respondent shall submit a statement certifying
compliance with the above undertakings within two weeks of completion of the |
undertakings.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Melissa D. Jurgens SS 0G
Chief, Executive Secrétariat Branch

Office of the Executive Director
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

 
    

Dated: March 16, 2015

10

 
