UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

 

: )
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE )
COMMISSION, )
100 F. Street, NE )
Washington, D.C. 20549
Plaintiff. Case: 1 -12-cv-00454
™ Assigned To : Collyer, Rosemary M.
Vv Assign. Date : 3/26/2012
Description: General Civil
BIOMET, INC. )
56 East Bell Drive )
Warsaw, Indiana 46582 )
)
Defendant. )
. )
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission’”’), alleges:
SUMMARY

1. This matter concems violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
("FCPA") by Biomet, Inc. (“Biomet”) and four of its subsidiaries to obtain sales for their
medical device business. |

2. Biomet is a global medical device company with operations around the
world. From 2000 through August 2008, Biomet and its four subsidiaries paid bribes to
public doctors employed by public hospitals and agencies in Argentina, Brazil, and
China.

3. Biomet violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 |
(“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1] by making illicit payments to foreign

government officials in order to obtain or retain business. Biomet violated Section
RELATED ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS

7. Biomet Argentina SA (“Biomet Argentina”) is an Argentine corporation
and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Biomet. Biomet conducts all of its sales in Argentina
through Biomet Argentina. Biomet Argentina’s financial statements are consolidated
into the statements of Biomet.

8. Biomet International Corporation (“Biomet International”) is a
Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Biomet. Biomet conducts all of
its sales in Brazil through Biomet International. Biomet International used a Brazilian
distributor to make the sales to public doctors and public hospitals. Biomet
International’s financial statements are consolidated into the statements of Biomet.

9. Biomet China is a Chinese company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Biomet. Biomet conducts most of its sales in China through Biomet China. Biomet
China’s financial statements are consolidated into the statements of Biomet.

10. Scandimed AB is a wholly-owned Swedish subsidiary of Biomet.
Scandimed was used by Biomet to make sales into China and elsewhere. Scandimed’s
financial statements are consolidated into the statements of Biomet.

11. Director of Internal Audit, a U.S. citizen, was an auditor at Biomet and
was based in Warsaw, Indiana.

12. Latin America Auditor, a U.S. citizen, was an auditor at Biomet and was
based in Warsaw, Indiana.

13. Senior Vice President, a U.S. citizen, was a senior vice president for

Biomet, and was based in Warsaw, Indiana.
14. Operations Manager, a U.S. citizen, was an operations manager for
Biomet, and was based in Warsaw, Indiana.

15. Managing Director was the managing director of Biomet Argentina.

16. Sales and Marketing Manager was the sales and marketing manager for
Latin America for Biomet.

17. +‘ Finance and Administration Manager was a finance and administration
manager for Biomet Argentina.

18. Associate Regional Manager, a U.S. citizen, was the Associate Regional
Manager for Biomet International in Asia/Pacific, and was based in Hong Kong SAR.

19. President of International Operations, a U.S. citizen, was the President
of International Operations for Biomet and was based in Warsaw, Indiana.

20. Brazilian Distributor, a Brazilian company, had exclusive distribution .
rights for Biomet reconstructive products in Brazil.

| 21. Chinese Distributor, a Chinese company, acted as a distributor of Biomet

products in China.

22. Doctor, a citizen of the People’s Republic of China, was the head of
orthopedics at a Chinese public hospital in Shanghai.

FACTS
A. Argentina

23. Since as early as 2000 to August 2008, Biomet Argentina employees paid
bribes to doctors employed by publicly owned and operated hospitals in Argentina in
exchange for sales of Biomet’s medical device products. The doctors were paid

approximately 15-20 percent of each sale.
24. Prior to 2000, Argentine tax authorities required all companies, including
Biomet Argentina, to keep records of all payments made to doctors. In order to conceal
the illicit purpose of the payments, Biomet Argentina employees obtained phony invoices
from doctors stating that the payments were for professional services or consulting, when
in fact, no such services occurred. Biomet Argentina recorded the payments falsely as
“consulting fees” or “commissions.” Starting in 2000, after the Argentine tax authorities
forbade tax-free payments to surgeons, Biomet Argentina employees recorded the
payments falsely as “royalties” or “other sales and marketing.”

25. Executives and auditors at Biomet’s Indiana headquarters were aware of
the Argentine payments to doctors as early as 2000. For example, on February 7, 2000,
Operations Manager circulated a memo in Biomet’s Miami office discussing the opening
of a direct-sales operation in Argentina, in which he included a budget allocation of “13-
20% commission to surgeon[s].” In 2001, Biomet purchased a company in Argentina
through which it would operate its direct sales business. The practice of paying the
commissions to doctors continued.

26. In 2003, Biomet’s U.S.-based auditors conducted an audit of Biomet
Argentina. On February 28, 2003, Director of Internal Audit circulated an internal audit
report on Argentina to Senior Vice President and others in Biomet in Indiana in which he
stated, “[R]oyalties are paid to surgeons if requested. These are disclosed in the
accounting records as commissions.” The internal audit report described the payments to
surgeons, but only in the context of confirming that the amount paid to the surgeon was

the amount recorded on the books.
27. Internal audit took no steps to determine why royalties were paid to
doctors purchasing Biomet medical devices, or why the payments to the doctors were 15-
20 percent of sales. The internal auditors did not obtain any evidence of services
. provided for the payments. In fact, the internal audit report-concluded that there were
adequate controls in place to properly account for royalties paid to surgeons without any
supporting documentation.

28. In August 2005, Managing Director of Biomet Argentina raised concerns
regarding potential payments to customs officials and requested an internal audit. From
September 2005 to October 2005, Director of Internal Audit, Latin America Auditor, and
others from the Internal Audit, Legal, and Compliance Departments of Biomet conducted
an investigation into the allegations. |

29. On January 10, 2006, Managing Director of Biomet Argentina sent an
email to Latin America Auditor in Indiana that attached a monthly list.of payments to
doctors that were a percentage of the cost of products purchased by the doctors during the
month.

30. On February 22, 2006, Latin America Auditor circulated an internal report
on the audit to Senior Vice President, Operations Manager, and others, which stated,
“Other allegations being investigated by Biomet’s legal team include fraudulent product
registration certificates, bribery of customs officials, and other charges as reported to
legal via electronic media. It was later determined that certificates were fraudulent and
bribes were made [sic].”

31. In November 2006, Latin America Auditor sent her report on the audit of

Biomet Argentina to Senior Vice President, Operations Manager and others in Indiana,
which stated, “The commission expense recorded on the income statement is actually
royalties paid to doctors for using Biomet products. This account should be renamed to
royalty’s [sic] expense.” Thus, despite the bribery, Latin America Auditor’s only
recommendation was to change the journal entry from “commission expenses” to
“royalties.” -

32. | Biomet’s U.S.-based auditors continued to get information about payments
to doctors, including payments made in cash. For example, on February 26, 2007,
Finance and Administration Manager at Biomet Argentina emailed Latin America
Auditor information regarding cash disbursements, which stated, “Payments for surgeon
commissions: the payments for surgeon commissions will be made on the 20th of each
month.”

33. In September 2007, the Commission staff sent a letter to Biomet inquiring
of payments made to public doctors. While the inquiry was underway in certain
countries, additional conduct was occurring at Biomet Argentina.

34, For example, on December 7, 2007, Sales and Marketing Manager for
Latin America sent a report on a visit to Biomet Argentina to Operations Manager, in
which he noted as an area of concern, “Doctors receive a ‘consulting fee’ for every
surgery.” On February 19, 2008, a Biomet Argentina employee also sent a list of
payments made to physicians to Managing Director of Biomet Argentina.

35. In March 2008, Managing Director of Biomet Argentina again reported
the payments to surgeons to internal compliance personnel but no efforts were made by

compliance to stop the practice.
. 36. On August 7, 2008, Finance and Administration Manager sent Biomet
Argentina’s financial report, which continued to openly reflect the 15-20% commissions
paid to surgeons, to Operations Manager and others in Indiana.

37. In August 2008, Biomet distributed new compliance guidelines that
emphasized the FCPA and related issues to its employees, including employees in
Argentina. Managing Director of Biomet Argentina reviewed the guidelines and
contacted Biomet’s attorneys to inform them of Biomet Argentina’s payments to doctors
to use Biomet products.

38. Within days, Biomet suspended the payments to Argentine doctors and
sent outside counsel to investigate the issue. In December 2008, Biomet suspended all
sales in Argentina. Biomet gradually re-entered the market in 2009. In all, Biomet paid
approximately $436,000 in payments that were provided to doctors in return for the
doctors’ use of Biomet products.

B. Brazil

39.  Biomet sold medical devices in Brazil through its U.S. subsidiary, Biomet
International. Biomet International engaged in a scheme in which its distributor,
Brazilian Distributor, paid bribes to doctors employed by publicly owned and operated
hospitals to purchase Biomet’s implants. Brazilian Distributor paid the doctors bribes in
the form of “commissions” of 10-20 percent of the value of the medical devices
purchased.

40. As early as 2001, Biomet employees were aware of Brazilian Distributor’s
payments to doctors in exchange for purchasing Biomet implants. The payments were

openly discussed in documents between Brazilian Distributor, Biomet International, and
Biomet’s executives and auditors in the U.S. For example, on August 15, 2001, Brazilian
Distributor sent an email to Senior Vice President in Indiana, copying Director of Internal
Audit and others, noting that Brazilian Distributor was paying “commission [sic} to
doctors.” In February 2002, Director of Internal Audit sent a memorandum to Senior
Vice President and Operations Manager regarding a limited audit performed of the books
and records of Brazilian Distributor, in which he stated:

“Brazilian Distributor makes payments to surgeons that may be considered as

a kickback. These payments are made in cash that allows the surgeon to

receive income tax free.... The accounting entry is to increase a prepaid

expense account. In the consolidated financials sent to Biomet, these
payments were reclassified to expense in the income statement.”

41. In another example, on August 21, 2003, Brazilian Distributor emailed
Senior Vice President, copying Operations Manager, Director of Internal Audit, and
others, stating “Prepaid now was fully reclassified to expenses accounts, commissions to
doctors continue to be the major item....”

42. On February 19, 2004, a Biomet Argentina employee forwarded to
Operations Manager the 2003 financial statements of Brazilian Distributor, which
included the 20% commissions to doctors as “commissions.” The next day, Operations
Manager forwarded the financial statements of Brazilian Distributor to Senior Vice
President. During this entire period, no efforts were made to stop the bribery.

43. In April 2008, Biomet decided to purchase Brazilian Distributor. Biomet
sent accountants and outside counsel to Brazil to conduct due diligence on Brazilian
Distributor. During the due diligence, the accountants identified cash payments to
doctors and debit card purchases on behalf of doctors that raised red flags of bribery.

When questioned by Biomet’s outside counsel, Brazilian Distributor admitted that they
paid doctors for buying Biomet products and described the payments as “scientific
incentives.” Brazilian Distributor said that Biomet executives knew about the payments.

44. _ Biomet terminated its relationship with Brazilian Distributor in May 2008.
Biomet withdrew its sales from the Brazilian market and wrote off $4.2 million in
accounts receivables owed by Brazilian Distributor. In 2009, Biomet re-entered the
Brazilian market and hired new Brazilian distributors to sell its medical implants. In all,
Biomet paid approximately $1.1 million in payments that were provided to doctors in
return for the doctors’ use of Biomet products. |

C. China

45.  Biomet sold its medical device products in China through its subsidiaries,
Biomet China and Scandimed. Biomet China and Scandimed used Chinese Distributor to
funnel bribes to doctors employed at publicly owned and operated hospitals. Chinese
Distributor provided the doctors with money and travel in exchange for their purchases of.
Biomet medical device products.

46. From at least 2001, Chinese Distributor exchanged emails with Biomet
employees that explicitly described the bribes that he was paying on Biomet China’s
behalf. For example, on February 1, 200 1, Chinese Distributor sent an email to Associate
Regional Manager for Asia/Pacific in Hong Kong SAR stating that Chinese Distributor
was paying a 10-15% “rebate” to surgeons on the sale of Biomet artificial hips. The next
day, Associate Regional Manager sent an email to a Biomet employee in the United
Kingdom, noting that Scandimed “offer[s] higher-than-average ‘commission’ to

surgeons....”

10
47. On February 6, 2001, a Scandimed employee emailed President of
International Operations in Indiana and Biomet employees in the United Kingdom,
stating, “Re. ‘commission’ to surgeons, Scandimed has no control over this... as we
understand it, giving commission [sic] or gifts of various kinds to surgeons is common in
China.” That same day, President of International Operations responded, copying
Operations Manager, stating, “[T]he only problem with a company paying high
commissions in a tight market is that the prices must be low enough to the dist[ributor] to
allow for these high commissions...”

48. On April 10, 2001, Chinese Distributor sent an email to President of
International Operations, copying Associate Regional Manager, discussing a doctor who
was trying to stop commissions being paid to physicians by medical device companies.

49. On May 18, 2001, Chinese Distributor sent an email copying Associate
Regional Manager, stating “[Doctor] will become the most loyal customer of Biomet if
we send him to Switzerland.”

50. On May 21, 2001, Chinese Distributor sent another email to Associate
Regional Manager, copying Senior Vice President, President of International Operations,
and Operations Manager, stating:

“[Doctor] is the department head of [public hospital]. [Doctor] uses about 10
hips and knees a month and it’s on an uptrend, as he told us over dinner a
week ago.... Many key surgeons in Shanghai are buddies of his. A kind
word on Biomet from him goes a long way for us. Dinner has been set for the

evening of the 24th. It will be nice. But dinner aside, I’ve got to send him to
Switzerland to visit his daughter.”

51. Some emails described the way that vendors would deliver cash to
surgeons upon the completion of surgery. Other emails discussed the amount of

payments. For example, on January 29, 2002, Associate Regional Manager prepared a

1]
summary of distribution in China, noting, “Chinese surgeons typically receive a
commission on sales, which can range from 5% to 25%. Distributors are expected to
hold banquets for surgeons, and to sponsor meetings.”

52.._ On April 21, 2002, Chinese Distributor sent an email to Associate
Regional Manager discussing payments to surgeons, stating,

“When we say “Surgeon Rebate included’, it means the invoice price includes a

predetermined percentage for the surgeon. For example, a vendor invoices the

hospital for a set of plate & screws at RMB 3,000.00. The vendor will have to
deliver RMB 750.00 (25% in this case) in cash to the surgeon upon completion of

surgery [sic].”

53. The bribery of Chinese doctors continued into 2005. For example, on
March 14, 2005, Director of Interna] Audit instructed an auditor to code improper
payments being made to doctors in connection with clinical trials as “entertainment.” In
addition, on December 28, 2005, an employee of Biomet China emailed Associate
Regional Manager, noting that doctors conducting clinical trials are paid a 10-15%
“consulting fee.”

54. In late 2006, Biomet made a business decision to end the relationship with
Chinese Distributor and to hire its own sales staff to sell Biomet medical devices into
China. From October 6 through October 13, 2007, Biomet China sponsored the travel of
20 surgeons to Barcelona and Valencia for training, including a substantial portion of the
trip being devoted to sightseeing and other entertainment at Biomet’s expense.

55. | On October 11, 2007, the product manager for Biomet China sent an email
to Associate Regional Manager discussing ways to evade efforts by the Chinese
government to halt corruption in health care by requiring all international companies to

declare actual cost for import to the government. In the email the product manager

12
stated, “Obviously, China government [sic] doesn’t have ability to forbid the corruption
from hospitals & surgeons...,” and then the product manager went on to propose four
methods for avoiding the regulation, including the use of falsified invoices. The product
manager was referring to efforts made in 2006 and 2007 by the Chinese authorities to
crack down on bribery, including the December 2006 arrest and July 2007 execution of
the former head of China’s drug regulator.

D. Anti-Bribery Violations

56.  Biomet and its four subsidiaries knowingly allowed its employees and
third parties to pay Argentine, Brazilian and Chinese public doctors for the purpose of
obtaining or retaining business. Public doctors in Argentina, Brazil, and China are
“foreign officials” as the term is defined in the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-2(h)(2)(A).

57. Biomet employees who were U.S. nationals approved the payments to
Argentine doctors and the arrangements with the Brazilian Distributor and Chinese
Distributor that included payments to doctors. The mails and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce were used in furtherance of the bribery schemes in Argentina, Brazil
and China.

E. Failure to Maintain Books and Records

58. Biomet, through its subsidiaries Biomet Argentina, Biomet International,
Biomet China, and Scandimed, made numerous illicit payments for years to public
doctors in Argentina, Brazil, and China. Biomet’s books and records did not reflect the

true nature of those payments. The payments were improperly recorded as

29 66. 39 66 37> 6

“commissions,” “royalties,” “consulting fees,” “other sales and marketing,” “scientific

99 66.

incentives,” “travel,” and “entertainment.”

13
F. Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

59.  Biomet failed to implement internal controls to detect or prevent bribery.
Biomet and four subsidiaries were involved in bribery that lasted for over a decade. The
conduct involved employees and managers of all levels involved in Biomet’s sales in
Argentina, Brazil and China. False documents were routinely created or accepted that
concealed the improper payments.

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
[Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act]

60. Paragraphs | through 56 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

61. As described above, Biomet, through its officers, employees, and agents,
corruptly offered, promised to pay, or authorized payments to one or more persons, while
knowing that all or a portion of those payments would be offered, given, or promised,
directly or indirectly, to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing their acts or
decisions in their official capacity, inducing them to do or omit to do actions in violation
of their official duties, securing an improper advantage, or inducing such foreign officials
to use their influence with foreign governments or instrumentalities thereof to assist
Biomet in obtaining or retaining business.

62. By reason of the foregoing, Biomet violated, and unless enjoined will
continue to violate, Section 30A of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1]

SECOND CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

63. Paragraphs | through 59 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

14
64. As described above, Biomet, through its officers, employees, and agents,
failed to keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets.

65. By reason of the foregoing, Biomet violated, and unless enjoined will
continue to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C.

§ 78m(b)(2)(A)]
THIRD CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]

66. Paragraphs 1 through 62 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

67. As described above, Biomet failed to devise and maintain a system of
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that:

(4) transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific
authorization; and (ii) transactions were recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any
other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for its
assets.

68. By reason of the foregoing, Biomet violated, and unless enjoined will

continue to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C.

§ 78m(b)(2)(B)]

1S
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment: |

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining Biomet from violating Sections
30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1,
78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B));

B. Ordering Biomet to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a
result of its illegal conduct, along with prejudgment interest; and

C. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: Wm~Vaus 25, 2012

‘Respectfully submitted,

    

 

. Mitchell (D.C. Bar No. 464083)
Tracy L. Price

Reid A. Muoio

Kara Novaco Brockmeyer

Attorneys for Plaintiff,

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE

Washington, DC 20549

(202) 551-4495 (Mitchell)

16
