Case S-cr-D1264 Document 25 adn PTXSDon P/oe/1S Page lof is
United States District
Pistrict of Texas
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT NOV 0 2 2016
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
MCALLEN DIVISION David J. Bradley, Clerk
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA §
§
Vv. § CRIMINAL NO. M-16-1164-01
§
DANIEL PEREZ § UNDER SEAL
§
§
Defendant. §
PLEA AGREEMENT

The United States of America, by and through Kenneth Magidson, United States Attorney
for the Southern District of Texas, and Jesse Salazar, Assistant United States Attorney, and
Andrew Weissmann, Chief of the Fraud Section of the Criminal Division of the United States
Department of Justice (“Fraud Section”), and Christopher Cestaro and Kevin R. Gingras, Trial
Attorneys, Fraud Section, and Defendant, Daniel Perez (“Defendant”), and Defendant’s counsel,
pursuant to Rule 11(c)(1)(B) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, state that they have
entered into an agreement, the terms and conditions of which are as follows:

The Defendant’s Agreement

I. Defendant agrees to plead guilty to Count One of the Information. Count One
charges Defendant with conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Title 15 United
States Code, Section 78dd-2 (“FCPA”), in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.
Defendant, by entering this plea, agrees that he is waiving any right to have the facts that the law
makes essential to the punishment either charged in an Indictment or proven to a jury or judge

beyond a reasonable doubt.
Case 7:iG6-cr-011684 Document 25 Flledin TXSD on t1/0eNS Pane 2? af 13
ee TARDE Fak a et BaP WILY A, 4 fobR NAS oN, : a PakAt TOCA N fe At det
Punishment Range
2. The statutory maximum penalty for a violation of Title 18, United States Code,

Section 371, is a term of imprisonment of not more than five years and a fine of not more than
$250,000 or twice the pecuniary gain or loss from the crime. Additionally, Defendant may receive
a term of supervised release after imprisonment of up to three years. See Title 18, United States
Code, Sections 3571(b)(3), 3571(d), and 3583(b)(2). Defendant acknowledges and understands
that if he should violate the conditions of any period of supervised release which may be imposed
as part of his sentence, then Defendant may be imprisoned for the entire term of supervised release,
without credit for time already served on the term of supervised release prior to such violation.
See Title 18, United States Code, Section 3583(e)(3). Defendant understands that he cannot have
the imposition or execution of the sentence suspended, nor is he eligible for parole.
Mandatory Special Assessment

3. Pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3013(a)(2)(A), immediately after
sentencing, Defendant will pay to the Clerk of the United States District Court a special assessment
in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per count of conviction.

Immigration Consequences

4, Defendant recognizes that pleading guilty may have consequences with respect to
his immigration status if he is not a citizen of the United States. Defendant understands that if he
is not a citizen of the United States, by pleading guilty he may be removed from the United States,
denied citizenship, and denied admission to the United States in the future. Defendant’s attorney
has advised Defendant of the potential immigration consequences resulting from Defendant’s plea

of guilty.
Case 7iis-cr-O1164 Document 25 Filedin TXSDoan P/Oe/16 Page Sof 1s
. Cooperation
5. The parties understand this Agreement carries the potential for a motion for

departure under Section SK1.1 of the United States Sentencing Guidelines (“Sentencing
Guidelines”). Defendant understands and agrees that whether such a motion is filed will be
determined solely by the United States through the United States Attorney for the Southern District
of Texas and the Fraud Section. Should Defendant’s cooperation, in the sole judgment and
discretion of the United States, amount to “substantial assistance,” the United States reserves the
sole right to file a motion for departure pursuant to Section 5K1.1 of the Sentencing Guidelines.
Defendant. further agrees to persist in that plea through sentencing, and fully cooperate with the
United States. | Defendant understands and agrees that the United States will request that
sentencing be deferred until that cooperation is complete.

6. Defendant understands and agrees that the usage “fully cooperate,” as used herein,
includes providing all information relating to any criminal activity known to Defendant, including,
but not limited to, violations of the FCPA. Defendant understands that such information includes
both state and federal offenses arising therefrom. In that regard:

(a) Defendant agrees that this Plea Agreement binds only the United States
Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, and the United States
Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section, and Defendant,
and that it does not bind any other United States Attorney or other
component or unit of the Department of Justice;

(b) Defendant agrees to testify truthfully as a witness before a grand jury or in
any other judicial or administrative proceeding when called upon to do so
by the United States. Defendant further agrees to waive his Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination for the purpose of this

Agreement;

(c) Defendant agrees to voluntarily attend any interviews and conferences as
the United States may request;

(d) Defendant agrees to provide truthful, complete, and accurate information
and testimony and understands any false statements made by Defendant to
the grand jury or at any court proceeding (criminal or civil), or to a
government agent or attorney, can and will be prosecuted under the
appropriate perjury, false statement, or obstruction statutes;

(e) Defendant agrees to provide to the United States all documents in his
possession or under his control relating to all areas of inquiry and
investigation; and

(f) Should the recommended departure, if any, not meet Defendant’s
expectations, Defendant understands he remains bound by the terms of this
Agreement and that he cannot, for that reason alone, withdraw his plea.

The United States’ Agreements
7. The United States agrees to each of the following:

(a) At the time of sentencing, the United States agrees not to oppose
Defendant’s anticipated request to the Court and the United States Probation
Office that he receive a two-level downward adjustment under Section
3E1.1(a) of the Sentencing Guidelines should Defendant accept
responsibility as contemplated by the Sentencing Guidelines; and

(b) If Defendant qualifies for an adjustment under U.S.S.G. Section 3E1.1(a)
and Defendant’s offense level is 16 or greater, the United States may move
for an additional one-level downward adjustment based on the timeliness of
the plea or the expeditious manner in which Defendant provided complete

information regarding his role in the offense.

Agreement Binding Only Southern District of Texas and
U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section

8. The United States agrees that it will not further criminally prosecute Defendant in
the Southern District of Texas for offenses arising from conduct charged in the Information. This
Plea Agreement binds only the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas;
the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section; and Defendant. It does
not bind any other United States Attorney or any other component or unit of the Department of
Justice. The United States will bring this Plea Agreement and the full extent of Defendant’s

cooperation to the attention of other prosecuting offices if requested.
Case 7il6-cr-02164 Document25 Filedin TXSDon 1/02/16 Page 5 of 13
United States’ Non-Waiver of Appeal
9. The United States reserves the right to carry out its responsibilities under the
Sentencing Guidelines. Specifically, the United States reserves the right to:
(a) Bring its version of the facts of this case, including its evidence file and

any investigative files, to the attention of the Probation Office in
connection with that office’s preparation of a presentence report;

(b) Set forth or dispute sentencing factors or facts material to sentencing;

(c) Seek resolution of such factors or facts in conference with Defendant’s
counsel and the Probation Office;

(d) File a pleading relating to these issues, in accordance with U.S.S.G.
Section 6A1.2 and Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553(a); and

(e) Appeal the sentence imposed or the manner in which it was determined.
Sentence Determination

10. Defendant is aware that a sentence has not yet been determined by the Court.
Defendant is also aware that any estimate of the possible sentencing range under the Sentencing
Guidelines that he may have received from his counsel, the United States, or the Probation Office,
is a prediction, not a promise, and such estimate did not induce his guilty plea and is binding on
neither the United States, the Probation Office, nor the Court. The United States does not make
any promise or representation concerning what sentence Defendant will receive. Defendant is
aware that the sentence will be imposed after consideration of the Sentencing Guidelines, as well
as the provisions of Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553(a). Defendant further understands
and agrees that the Sentencing Guidelines are “effectively advisory” to the Court. United States
v. Booker, 125 S.Ct. 738 (2005). Accordingly, Defendant understands that, although the Court
must consult the Sentencing Guidelines and must take them into account when sentencing

Defendant, the Court is not bound to follow the Sentencing Guidelines nor sentence Defendant
within the calculated guideline range. Defendant acknowledges and agrees that the Court has
authority to impose any sentence up to and including the statutory maximum set for the offense(s)
to which Defendant pleads guilty, and that the sentence to be imposed is within the sole discretion
of the sentencing judge after the Court has consulted the applicable Sentencing Guidelines.
Defendant understands and agrees the parties’ positions regarding the application of the
Sentencing Guidelines do not bind the Court, and that the sentence imposed is within the discretion
of the sentencing judge. If the Court should impose any sentence up to the maximum established
by statute, or should the Court order any or all of the sentences imposed to run consecutively,
Defendant cannot, for that reason alone, withdraw a guilty plea, and will remain bound to fulfill
all of the obligations under this Plea Agreement.
Waiver of Rights

11. Defendant represents to the Court that he is satisfied that his attorney has rendered
effective assistance. Defendant understands that by entering into this Agreement, he surrenders
certain rights as provided in this Plea Agreement. Defendant understands that those rights include
the following:

(a) Defendant understands that he has the right to have the facts of this case
presented to a federal grand jury, consisting of between sixteen and twenty-
three citizens, twelve of whom would have to find probable cause to believe
that he committed the offense set forth in the information before an

indictment could be returned. The defendant acknowledges that he is
knowingly and intelligently waiving his right to be indicted.

(b) If Defendant persisted in a plea of not guilty to the charges, Defendant
would have the right to a speedy jury trial with the assistance of counsel.
The trial may be conducted by a judge sitting without a jury if Defendant,
the United States, and the court all agree.

(c) Ata trial, the United States would be required to present witnesses and other
evidence against Defendant. Defendant would have the opportunity to
confront those witnesses and his attorney would be allowed to cross-
examine them. In turn, Defendant could, but would not be required to,
present witnesses and other evidence on his own behalf. If the witnesses
for Defendant would not appear voluntarily, he could require their
attendance through the subpoena power of the court.

(d) Ata trial, Defendant could rely on a privilege against self-incrimination and
decline to testify, and no inference of guilt could be drawn from such refusal
to testify. However, if Defendant desired to do so, he could testify on his
own behalf.

Factual Basis for Guilty Plea

12. Defendant is pleading guilty because he is guilty of the charges contained in Count
One of the Information. If this case were to proceed to trial, the United States could prove each
element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt. The following facts, among others would be
offered to establish Defendant’s guilt:

“The Foreign State Government” was the government of one of the thirty-one states that
comprise Mexico.

“Foreign Official 1” was an employee of The Foreign State Government with responsibility
for maintaining The Foreign State Government’s aircraft from at least in or around 2005 to in or
around December 2010.

“Foreign Official 2” was an employee of The Foreign State Government with responsibility
for maintaining The Foreign State Government’s aircraft from in or around January 2011 through
at least in or around July 2016.

‘Aviation Corporation A” was a United States company, headquartered in Texas, which
provided maintenance, repair, overhaul, and related services to customers in the United States and
Mexico, including to The Foreign State Government.

DANIEL PEREZ (“PEREZ”) was a citizen of the United States and a resident of Texas.

PEREZ was the Director of Maintenance of Aviation Corporation A from in or around 1978
through at least in or around July 2016. PEREZ was an owner of Aviation Corporation A from
in or around 1993 through in or around 2010.

Kamta Ramnarine (“Ramnarine”’) was a citizen of the United States and resident of Texas.
Ramnarine was an employee of Aviation Corporation A from in or around 1975 to at least in or
around July 2016. Ramnarine was the President of Aviation Corporation A from in or around
1993 to in or around 2010, and Ramnarine was the General Manager of Aviation Corporation A
from in or around 2010 through at least in or around July 2016. Ramnarine was an owner of
Aviation Corporation A from in or around 1993 through in or around 2010.

Between in or around 2007 and in or around April 2015, PEREZ, Ramnarine, and others
knowingly, willfully, and corruptly agreed to make payments, and caused Aviation Corporation A
to make payments, to employees of The Foreign State Government and instrumentalities of The
Foreign State Government, including Foreign Official 1 and Foreign Official 2, (collectively the
“Foreign Officials”), to influence the Foreign Officials in their official capacity and to secure an
improper advantage for Aviation Corporation A in order to assist Aviation Corporation A in
obtaining and retaining business with The Foreign State Government and instrumentalities of The
Foreign State Government.

In furtherance of the bribe scheme, PEREZ, Ramnarine, and others caused Aviation
Corporation A to make corrupt payments to the Foreign Officials, including a corrupt payment in
the amount of approximately $35,000 from Aviation Corporation A’s bank account in Texas in or
around December 22, 2010 to Foreign Official 1’s bank account in Texas. PEREZ knew it was
wrong to make the payments, and knew that the purpose of the corrupt payments was to influence
the Foreign Officials in their official capacity in order to improperly secure business with The

Foreign State Government and instrumentalities of The Foreign State Government. PEREZ
communicated with Ramnarine, the Foreign Officials, and others about the bribes, signed checks
that were paid to Foreign Official 1, and deposited bribe payments into a bank account controlled
by Foreign Official | in Texas.

Further, PEREZ, Ramnarine, Foreign Official 1, Foreign Official 2, and others took steps
to conceal the bribe scheme, including by hiding the amount of the bribe payments in invoices sent
to The Foreign State Government and instrumentalities of The Foreign State Government.

From in or around 2007 through in or around April 2015, PEREZ, Ramnarine, and others
knowingly, willfully, and corruptly conspired and agreed to cause Aviation Corporation A to make
bribe payments to the Foreign Officials totaling at least $665,000 in association with the bribery
scheme.

Breach of Plea Agreement

13. If Defendant should fail in any way to fulfill completely all of the obligations under
this Plea Agreement, the United States will be released from its obligations under the Plea
Agreement, and Defendant’s plea and sentence will stand. If at any time Defendant retains,
conceals or disposes of assets in violation of this Plea Agreement, or if Defendant knowingly
withholds evidence or is otherwise not completely truthful with the United States, then the United
States may move the Court to set aside the guilty plea and reinstate prosecution. Any information
and documents that have been disclosed by Defendant, whether prior to or subsequent to this Plea
Agreement, and all leads derived therefrom, will be used against Defendant in any prosecution.

Fines

14. | Defendant understands that under the Sentencing Guidelines the Court is permitted

to order Defendant to pay a fine that is sufficient to reimburse the government for the costs of any

imprisonment or term of supervised release, if any. Defendant agrees that any fine imposed by the
rae
oe
Fy,
feet

Court will be due and payable immediately, and Defendant will not attempt to avoid or delay
payment.
Complete Agreement

15. This written Plea Agreement, consisting of 13 pages, including the attached
addendum of Defendant and his attorney, constitutes the complete Plea Agreement between the
United States, Defendant, and his counsel. No promises or representations have been made by the
United States except as set forth in writing in this Plea Agreement. Defendant acknowledges that
no threats have been made against him and that he is pleading guilty freely and voluntarily because

he ts guilty.

10
Maan Ft
eset
Nw CS Fe

 

1
elt
feet
oD

16. | Any modification of this Plea Agreement must be in writing and signed by all

parties.

Filed at N\* () Vow , Texas, on (yl Cal

APPROVED:

Kenneth Magidson
United States Attorney

 

By:
JESSE SALAZAR
Asfistanf United States Attorney
Southern District of Texas
Telephone: 956.992.9424
[CX
By:

 

ARDO RYNCONES Jr.
ttOrney for Defendant

1

,201b

Defendant —D

 

Andrew Weissmann
Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal! Division
Department of Justice

   

ISTOPHER CESTARO
VIN R. GINRGAS
rial‘Attorneys

United States Department of Justice
Criminal Division, Fraud Section
Telephone: 202.714.0735

    
 
 

Hed
feet

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

MCALLEN DIVISION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA §
§
v. § CRIMINAL NO. M-16-1164-01
§
DANIEL PEREZ §
§
§
Defendant. §

PLEA AGREEMENT - ADDENDUM

I] have fully explained to Defendant his rights with respect to the Information. I have
reviewed the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual and
Policy Statements and I have fully and carefully explained to Defendant the provisions of those
Guidelines which may apply in this case. | have also explained to Defendant that the Sentencing
Guidelines are only advisory and the court may sentence Defendant up to the maximum allowed
by statute per count of conviction. Further, | have carefully reviewed every part of this Plea
Agreement with Defendant. To my knowledge, Defendant’s decision to enter into this Agreement

is an informed and voluntary one.

d. I [f /y
ttgrey for Petendane” \ Date! |

I have consulted with my attorney and fully understand all my rights with respect to the
Information pending against me. My attorney has fully explained and I understand all my rights

with respect to the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual

12
 

A Neenah SR a PM SIN Ar FDO Pa
av “i ear ois heeds “+ “as, ene tn i eee es
(OS (ADGA PPG PAS Or A

 

which may apply in my case. I have read and carefully reviewed every part of this Plea Agreement

with my attorney. I understand this Agreement and | voluntarily agree to its terms.

(W029) Berl

Defendant Date

13
