#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, December 27, 2016

Four Businessmen and Two Foreign Officials Plead Guilty in Connection with Bribes Paid to
Mexican Aviation Officials

Charges were unsealed against six individuals, all of whom have pleaded guilty for their involvement in schemes to bribe Mexican officials in
order to secure aircraft maintenance and repair contracts with government-owned and controlled entities, and two for conspiring to launder the
proceeds of the schemes.

Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern
District of Texas, Special Agent in Charge Mark Dawson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-
HSI) in Houston, Special Agent in Charge Shane Folden of ICE-HSI in San Antonio and Special Agent in Charge Rick Goss of Internal Revenue
Service-Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-Cl) Houston Field Office made the announcement.

“The six convictions announced today demonstrate the department’s commitment to holding accountable those who further official corruption
through bribery,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “These convictions are the result of a coordinated effort by prosecutors and agents
who built the cases brick by brick using traditional law enforcement techniques.”

“HSI special agents and our law enforcement partners will continue to aggressively investigate financial crimes committed by corrupt foreign
officials,” said Special Agent in Charge Folden. “This case serves as a reminder that HSI will use all its resources to identify, investigate and
dismantle these criminal networks wherever they operate.”

“The individuals involved in this scheme paid millions of dollars in bribes to foreign officials in exchange for aviation contracts that placed
legitimate businesses at a significant competitive disadvantage,” said Special Agent in Charge Goss. “IRS-Cl’s role in unraveling this scheme
assisted in facilitating the guilty pleas that were announced today.”

Douglas Ray, 55, of Magnolia, Texas, and Victor Hugo Valdez Pinon, 54, a citizen of Mexico, pleaded guilty on Oct. 28 and Oct. 26, 2016,
respectively, before U.S. District Judge Alfred H. Bennett of the Southern District of Texas to conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act (FCPA) and conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Kamta Ramnarine, 69, and Daniel Perez, 69, both of Brownsville, Texas, both pleaded guilty on
Nov. 2, 2016, before U.S. District Judge Ricardo H. Hinojosa of the Southern District of Texas to one count of conspiring to violate the FCPA.
Ramnarine and Perez are scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 30, 2017. Ray and Valdez Pinon are scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 23, 2016.

Ernesto Hernandez Montemayor, 55, and Ramiro Ascencio Nevarez, 58, both of whom are citizens of Mexico and were previous officials of
Mexican state government entities, each pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering. Hernandez Montemayor
pleaded guilty before Judge Bennett on Dec. 9, 2015, and is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 12, 2017. Nevarez pleaded guilty before Judge
Hinojosa on March 4, 2016, and was sentenced to 15 months in prison on May 27, 2016.

According to the defendants’ plea agreements, between 2006 and 2016, Ray conspired with Valdez and others to bribe Mexican officials. The
defendants and their co-conspirators, who owned or were associated with companies in the United States that provided aircraft maintenance,
repair, overhaul and related services to customers from the United States and Mexico, paid the bribes in order to secure parts and servicing
contracts with Mexican government-owned customers. Ray agreed to pay bribes to at least seven different foreign officials, including
Hernandez Montemayor, sometimes paying the bribes via wire transfer and checks to accounts in the United States controlled by the officials.
As part of his guilty plea, Hernandez Montemayor admitted that while employed by a Mexican state government, he accepted bribes from Ray,
Ramnarine, Perez and others in exchange for taking certain actions to assist companies they owned in winning business with Hernandez
Montemayor’s state government employer. Hernandez Montemayor also admitted that he conspired with Ray, Ramnarine, Perez and others to
launder the proceeds of the bribery scheme.

Ramnarine and Perez admitted that, in addition to bribing Hernandez Montemayor, they also conspired to pay bribes to several other foreign
officials between 2007 and 2015 to ensure that their Brownsville-based company won aircraft parts and services contracts with Mexican
government-owned customers. As part of his guilty plea, Nevarez admitted that while employed by a Mexican public university, he accepted
bribes from Ramnarine and Perez in exchange for taking certain actions to assist their company in winning business with the university.
Nevarez also admitted that he conspired with Ramnarine, Perez and others to launder the proceeds of the bribery scheme.

In total, Ray, Valdez Pinon, Ramnarine, Perez and their co-conspirators paid more than $2 million in bribes to Mexican officials, including
Hernandez Montemayor and Nevarez, in order to secure aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul contracts.

ICE-HSI and IRS-CI are investigating the case. Trial Attorneys Christopher Cestaro and Kevin R. Gingras of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section
and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jesse Salazar and Arthur Jones of the Southern District of Texas are prosecuting the case. The Criminal Division's
Office of International Affairs also provided significant assistance.

The Criminal Division’s Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the

department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption
Component(s):
Criminal Division
USAO - Texas, Southern

 

Press Release Number:

16-1531

Updated October 3, 2017
