Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 20461 / February 21, 2008

Securities and Exchange Commission v. Flowserve Corporation, Civil
Action No. 08 CV 00294 (D.D.C.) (EGS)

SEC Files Settled Books and Records and Internal Controls Charges
Against Flowserve Corporation For Improper Payments to Iraq Under
the U.N. Oil for Food Program — Company Agrees to Pay Over $6.5
Million in Civil Penalties, Disgorgement of Profits, and Prejudgment
Interest

The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act books and records and internal controls charges against
Flowserve Corporation ("Flowserve") in the U.S. District Court for the District
of Columbia. Flowserve is a Texas-based manufacturer of pumps, valves,
seals, and related automation and services to the power, oil, gas, and
chemical industries. The Commission's complaint alleges that from 2001
through 2003, two of Flowserve's subsidiaries entered into a total of twenty
contracts in which $646,488 in kickback payments were made and another
$173,758 were authorized in connection with sales of industrial equipment to
Iraqi government entities under the U.N. Oil for Food Program (the
"Program'"). The kickbacks were characterized as "after-sales service fees"
("ASSFs"), but no bona fide services were performed. The Program was
intended to provide humanitarian relief for the Iraqi population, which faced
severe hardship under international trade sanctions. The Program allowed the
Iraqi government to purchase humanitarian goods through a U.N. escrow
account. The kickbacks paid by Flowserve's subsidiaries diverted funds out of
the escrow account and into an Iraqi slush fund. The contracts submitted to
the U.N. did not disclose that the illicit payments were included in the inflated
contract prices.

According to the Commission's Complaint:

A French Flowserve subsidiary, Flowserve Pompes, entered into fifteen
Program contracts involving kickback payments of $604,651. Flowserve
Pompes agreed to, but did not ultimately make, an additional $173,758 in
improper ASSF payments under four additional contracts. Delivery under
these four contracts had not been completed by the time of the U.S. invasion
of Iraq in March 2003. Senior officials at Flowserve Pompes, including the
subsidiary's President, developed two different false cover stories to conceal
the ASSF kickback payments. The company's internal accounting records
falsely indicated that Flowserve Pompes paid a Jordanian agent a ten percent
fee on each contract to cover the cost of installing and commissioning the
equipment. In reality, the agent provided no such services. The contract
documents that Flowserve Pompes sent to the U.N. for approval painted a
different, but equally false, picture. These documents omitted any reference
to after sales services or related installation fees. Instead, to cover the cost of
the illicit ASSF payments, the company's U.N. contracts inflated the unit price
of each piece of equipment without disclosing the price increases, or the
reason for them, to the U.N. Flowserve Pompes also signed a side letter to the
Iraqi ministry to pay the ten percent, and failed to disclose the letter to the
U.N. Knowing that the kickback payments had to be received before the
goods would be allowed across the border, Flowserve Pompes paid its agent
immediately. The agent then made the kickback payment by depositing cash
into an Iraqi-controlled account in Jordan.

Flowserve's Dutch subsidiary, Flowserve B.V., entered into one contract
involving an ASSF kickback payment of $41,836. The contract was for the
supply of water pump Spare parts to the Iraqi government-owned South Gas
Company. In August 2001, officials of Flowserve B.V. met with the company's
agent and were advised that the agent would have to pay a ten percent
kickback on the transaction on Flowserve B.V.'s behalf, for which the agent
would need reimbursement. Flowserve B.V.'s controller chose to conceal the
payment by increasing the cost of the purchase order by ten percent and
passing the difference back to the agent. In September 2001, Flowserve B.V.
agreed to pay a supplemental commission — euphemistically labeled a
"special project discount" — to the agent to cover the amount of the kickback.
Upon receiving its supplemental commission payment, the agent paid the ten
percent kickback to the South Gas Company on Flowserve B.V.'s behalf.

Flowserve either knew or was reckless in not knowing that illicit payments
were either offered or paid in connection with these transactions. Flowserve
failed to maintain an adequate system of internal controls to detect and
prevent the payments. Flowserve's accounting for these transactions failed
properly to record the nature of the company's payments. The company's
books falsely characterized the ASSF payments either as payments for
services actually performed or as agent commissions.

Flowserve, without admitting or denying the allegations in the Commission's
complaint, consented to the entry of a final judgment permanently enjoining it
from future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, ordering it to disgorge $2,720,861, in profits, plus
$853,364 in pre-judgment interest, and to pay a civil penalty of $3,000,000.
Flowserve will also pay a $4,000,000 fine pursuant to a deferred prosecution
agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, Fraud Section. Flowserve B.V.
will enter into a criminal disposition with the Dutch Public Prosecutor pursuant
to which it will pay a fine.

The Commission considered remedial acts promptly undertaken by Flowserve
and the cooperation the company afforded the Commission staff in its
investigation. The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the
Department of Justice, Fraud Section and the United Nations Independent
Inquiry Committee.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http:./www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2008/Ir20461.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 02/21/2008
