   

AE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page i of 29

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORE

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING : Case No. 19-cv-8409-PAE
COMMISSION, :
Plaintiff,

v.
FUTURESFX and SIMON IOUSEF,

Defendants.

CONSENT ORDER FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION, CIVIL
MONETARY PENALTIES, AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF
AGAINST DEFENDANTS FUTURESEX AND SIMON JOUSER
L INTRODUCTION
On September 36, 2019, Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(“Commission” or “CFTC”) filed a complaint against Defendant Simon Jousef (“Jousef") and
his business FuturesFX (collectively, “Defendants”), seeking injunctive and other equitable
relief, as well as restitution and the imposition of civil monetary penalties, for violations of the
Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act”), 7 U.S.C. §§ 1-26 (2018), and the Commission’s
Regulations (“Regulation”), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1-190 (2619).
IL. CONSENTS AND AGREEMENTS

To effect settlement of all charges alleged in the Complaint against Defendants without a

trial on the merits or any further judicial proceedings, Defendanis:
a2 of23

 

i. Consent to the entry of this Consent Order for Permanent Injunction, Civil
Monetary Penalties and Other Equitable Relief against Defendants FuturesFX and Simon Jousef
(Consent Order’);

2. Affirm that they have read and agreed to this Consent Order voluntarily, and that
no promise, other than as specifically contained herein, or threat, has been made by the
Cornmission or any member, officer, agent, or representative thereof, or by any other person, to
induce consent to this Consent Order:

3. Acknowledge service of the summons and Complaint in this action;

4. Admit the jurisdiction of this Court over them and the subject matter of this action
pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2018); and pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331
and 1345 (2018);

3. Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission over the conduct and transactions at
issue in this action pursuant to the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 1-26 (2018), including the foreign exchange
(“forex”) transactions at issue in this case pursuant to Section 2(¢(2)(C) of the Act, 7 ULS.C.

§ 22 (C) 2018);

6. Admit that venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(e) (2018);

7, Waive:

a Any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to
Justice Act, § U.S.C. § 504 (2018) and 28 U.S.C, § 2412 (2018), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2019),

relating to, or arising from, this action;
 

ea 3of23

b, Any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. H, $8 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-74 (1996), (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in seattered sections of §
U.S.C. and 15 U8.C.}, relating to, or arising from, this action:

c. Any claim of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this action or
the entry in this action of amy order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any other relief,
including this Consent Order; and

d. Any and all rights of appeal from this action;

8. Consent to the continued jurisdiction of this Court over them for the purpose of
implementing and enforcing the terms and conditions of this Consent Order and for any other
purpose relevant to this action, even if either FuturesFX or Jousef now or in the future reside
outside the jurisdiction of this Court;

9. Agree that they will not oppose enforcement of this Consent Order on the ground,
if any exists, that it fails to comply with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
hereby waive any objection based thereon;

10. Agree that neither they nor any of their agents or employees under their authority
or contro! shall take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
allegation in the Complaint or the Findings of Fact or Conclusions of Law in this Consent Order,
or creating or tending to create the impression that the Complaint and/or this Consent Order is
without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect their:

(a) testimonial obligations, or (b) right to take legal positions in other proceedings to which the

Commission is not a party;
 

ov -O8409-P AE

 

cument 28

 

ge 4dof2g

li. Agree that they shall comply with this Consent Order and shall undertake all steps
necessary to ensure that all of their agenis and/or employees under their authority or control
understand and comply with this Consent Order;

12. Consent to the entry of this Consent Order without admitting or denying the
allegations of the Complaint or any findings or conclusions in this Consent Order, except as to
jurisdiction and venue, which they admit:

13. Consent to the use of the findings and conclusions in this Consent Order in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party or claimant, and agree that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given
prechusive effect therein, without further proof

14, Do not consent, however, to the use of this Consent Order, or the findings and
conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to
which the Commission is a party, other than: a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership, or a
proceeding to enforce the terms of this Consent Order;

15. Agree to provide immediate notice to this Court and the Commission by certified
mail, in the manner required by paragraph 90 of Part VI of this Consent Order, of any
bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or against them, whether inside or outside the
United States; and

16. Agree that no provision of this Consent Order shall in any way limit or impair the
ability of any other person or entity to seek any legal or equitable remedy against Defendants in

any other proceeding.

fp.
 

Case 1:19-cv-08409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/2 Page 5 of 23

 

i. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS

This Court, being fully advised in the premises, finds that there is good cause for the
entry of this Consent Order and that there is no just reason for delay. The Court, therefore,
directs the entry of the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and equitable relief and,
pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.8.C. § 13a-1 (2018), orders the entry of a permanent
injunction, restitution, and civil monetary penalties. The findings and conclusions in this
Consent Order are not binding on any other party to this action.

THE PARTIES AGREE AND THE COURT HEREBY FINDS:
AL Findings of Fact
The Parties To This Consent Order

17, = Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent federal
regulatory agency charged by Congress with the administration and enforcement of the Act,

7 USC. $§ 1-26 (2018), and the Regulations promulgated thereunder, 17 LF. RB. §§ 1-190
(2019).

18. Defendant FuteresEX is a sole proprietorship licensed in Ontario, Canada with a
principal place of business in Ontario, Canada. From ai least July 1, 2014 and continuing to on
or about January 31, 2016 (the “Relevant Period”), FuturesF X was in the business of marketing
and providing access to an online trading room referenced as a “Live Trading Room,”
educational videos, and online support (collectively, the “Trading System”). FuturesFX was
owned, operated, and controlled by Jousef. FuturesFX has never been registered with the
Commission in any capacity.

19. Defendant Simeon Jousef is an individual who resides in Ontario, Canada. During

the Relevant Period, Jousef owned and operated FuturesFX, solicited members and prospective

ta
 

6 1:19-cv-08409-PAE Document28 Filed O4/22/e0 Page 6 of BS

meribers, inchiding members in the United States (collectively, “Members”) to purchase access
to his Trading System, and commonly conducted the “Live Trading Room.” Jousef was a
principal of 6716571 Canada, Inc. (“Canada Inc.”), a company that he incorporated in February
2007 and dissolved in December 2013. Canada Inc. was registered with the Cormmission as a
commodity trading advisor (“CTA”) pursuant to Section 4n of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6n (2018),
until the time of its dissolution. Jousef, however, has never been registered with the Commission
as a CTA; indeed, he has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.
Defendants Solicited Members te Purchase Access to Their Trading System

20. On February 8, 2007, Jousef incorporated Canada, Inc. in Ontario, Canada, which
did business as Futures. The stated business activity on the business license for FuturesFX
was “teaching and education.” On June 18, 2013, Jousef obtained a business Hcense for
“FuturesFX Library” as a sole proprietorship in Ontario which expired on June 17,2018. The
stated business activity on the business license for FuturesFX Library was an “on-line video
library for investors.” Jousef operated FuturesFX through a website called futuresfx.ca.

2k. At futuresfx.ca, during the Relevant Period, Jousef represented himself as a CTA
with thirteen years of trading experience and marketed his Trading System for trading forex and
commodity futures contracts such as crade oil, gold, and the E-mini S&P 500 futures contracts.

22. As part of his marketing strategy, Jousef offered free access to the “Live Trading
Room” where prospective Members could observe himn ostensibly live trading forex. and futures
contracts using his trading methodology.

23. Fora membership fee, Members gained entry to a “member's area” where they
had unlimited access to Defendants’ “Live Trading Room” as well as educational videos and

online support.
 

6 1:19-cv-08409-PAFE Document28 Filed O4/22/e0 Page 7 of BS

24. Sometime in 2014, Jousef transitioned the “Live Trading Room” to a website
called globaltradercom.com, but the educational videos remained accessible on the fiuturesfx.ca
website. Both websites referred to each other. At globaltraderoorm.com, Jousef continued to
represent himself as a CTA who “trades his live account in front of students” in “his live trading
room sessions at FuturesFX.ca and GlobalTradeRoom.corm.”

25. Both the firturesix.ca and globaltradercom.com websites were available to and
accessed by Members, including a Member who resides within this District.

26. Mernbers who were interested in gaining access to Jousef’s Trading System
would receive instructions to provide payment through PayPal. The PayPal account was
registered with a business name of “Futures FX.”

27, Monies paid by Members through PayPal would be directed to bank accounts in
the United States and Canada that were owned and/or controlied by Jousef.

28. Members were sent electronic documents for signature for “access to the Trading
Library, FuturesFX, and the Global Trade Room Member's Area.”

29. Defendants charged Members up to approximately $9,000 to receive this access to
the Trading System, which included access to educational videos and online trading rooms.

30, During the Relevant Period, Defendants received approximately $1.3 million
from approximately 300 FuturesFX Members in both the United States and other countries.

Defendants’ Conduct Regarding Live Trading
31. As part of their marketing strategy, Defendants offered Members access to a

“Live Trading Room.”
 

6 1:19-cv-08409-PAE Document2a Filed O4/22/e0 Page 8 of BS

32. Om the futuresfx.ca website, Defendants advertised “3 LIVE trading rooms” and
posted numerous testimonials that described live trading taking place in the “Live Trading
Room,” including the following:

a. “TWie get to hear and see Hive trades happening all the time. Being able to
see and take live entries with very tight stops can help a trader immensely.
Futures FX has also launched their new GTR (Global Trade Room) and if one
were inclined, you could attend a Live Trade Room around the clock in all major
time zones... .””

b. “Needless to say, after doing research, watching his videos, and
witnessing Simon use the Price Magnet indicator to trade live in his live trade
room, | discovered that Simon was not engaging in any hyperbole.”

c. “Simon is the REAL DEAL. Simon is a certified CTA. Simon trades
LIVE in front of you. You see his LIVE CHART with his actual account, and

you see him placing the actual trades.”

d. “What is unique about the room is Simon trades a LIVE account right in
front of the room.”

@. “Simon trades his account live and we all see it.”

33. Jousef also indicated on his futuresfx.ca website that he trades outside the “Live
Trading Room” by stating the following: “It is not an easy task to trade and teach at the same
time therefore my students understand when | miss good trades. [ do however trade beyond
(Live Trading Room] hours to reach my personal profit targets.”

34. At globaltraderoom.com, Jouset’s personal biography states that “he trades his
live account in front of students and teaches the exact same strategies and tape reading methods
he used during live trading competitions daily during his live trading room sessions at
FuturesFx.ca and GlobalTradeRoom.com.”

35, Globaltraderoom.com also inchides an image of booklets and CDs with the
“Global Trade Room” label, which advertise, among other things, “Real Live Trading in

2 Different Sessions,” and “Live Trading every day in Real Time with live accounts.”
 

6 1:19-cv-08409-PAE Document28 Filed O4/22/e0 Page 9 of BS

36. Members who registered to access a free trial “Live Trading Room” received an
email from Jousef which included the following statement describing a “Live” trading room
session at globaltradercom.com: “Please be advised that the trades being called are in a live
account with real money so your entries may differ.” During the free trial “Live” ade room
sessions, Members also heard Jousef indicate that he was executing actual trades in a live
account.

37, Jousef, however, never traded live in the “Live Trading Reom” at either
futuresfx.ca or globaltraderoom.com during the Relevant Period. All of his trades were either
hypothetical or simulated. He did not disclose to Members that all of bis trades in the “Live
Trading Room” were either hypothetical or simulated.

38.  Jousef admitted that he never traded in a live account outside the “Live Trading
Room” and never traded live during the Relevant Period.

Defendants’ Conduct Regarding Performance, Profitability, and Risk of Loss

39. Defendants made false statements to Members regarding the performance,
profitability, and risk of loss when using their Trading System, as set forth below.

40. In a description of their trading methodology at the futuresfx.ca website,
Defendants described one method as being “about 80% winner.” On the globaltraderoom.com
website, Defendants described their trading system as “[a] Guaranteed Winning Formula.”

41. Defendants also advertised “Swing Trade Recommendations” where they cited
specific instances of historical trades where Jousef earned profits described in terms of both
specific dollar amounts and “ticks” which refer to a specific price increment.

42.  ‘Globaltraderoom.com included spreadsheets that purported to describe “GTR’s

Performance Track Record” in 2014 and parts of 2015. Those spreadsheets showed profits in
2ase P:o-cv-Ol840G-PAE Document 28 F

 

OU22/20 Page LO of 29

dollar figures, including the representation that total profits in 2014 were $308,160, in addition to
a statement that read: “These results are with a live account with real money. Your results may
vary.”
43, in his “Live Trading Room,” Jousef also described trading where the majority of
his trades were profitable.
44, At the globaltraderoom.com website, there is a section called “Free Money.”
a. lt begins with the following: “Is there really such a thing as free money?

Yes. Does free money really exist? Yes. So what's the catch? No catch.
What's it cost? Absolutely nothing.”

4

b This section. goes on to compare the “[t}housands of daytrading rooms
with outrageous, unproven, and unverified hypes” to the “honest” and
“trustworthy” Global Trade Room, which “[h]as been trading live in front of
students every day since 2005. A live account. By a Hoensed CTA... . Simon
Jousef, owner and head trader at Global TradeRoom.com has been trading his live
account in front of students every day since 2005,”
c. This “Free Money” section goes on to claim that, had a prospective
student taken every trade called out during the free live trading room session at
globaltraderoom.com in 2014, that investor would have earned 2 640% return on
investment.

45. In at least one email advertisement to a prospective Member, Jousef represented
that the “Live Room avg. over 120 ticks a day” and it includes the following quote: “[H]aven’t
had a losing week in the last 12 months!”

45, However, every reference to performance, profitability, and risk of loss were not
true because Jousef admitted that he never traded live in an actual trading account during the

Relevant Period.

Jousef’s Statements to NEA and Defendants”
Representations Regarding Jousef’s Background

47, The National Futures Association (“NFA”), which is designated by the CFTC as a

registered futures association pursuant to Section 17 of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 21 (2018), is a self-

10
 

ument 28 Filed

   

Page Li of 29

regulatory organization for the U.S. derivatives industry. The CFTC delegated to the NFA
responsibilities regarding CTA registration. To be registered with the Commission as a CTA, an
applicant must not only satisfy the NFA’s registration requirements, but aiso submit annual
updates with the NFA.

48. On February 8, 2007, Jousef incorporated Canada, Inc. which did business as
FuturesFX. On June 6, 2007, Jousef registered Canada, Inc. with the Commission asa CTA.
However, pursuant to Jousef’s voluntary application for dissolution, Canada, Inc. was dissolved
on December 7, 2013, and thus was no longer registered with the Commission as a CTA as of
that date.

43, After Canada, Inc.’s dissolution, Jousef received notices from the NFA on behalf
of the Commission to provide updates on Canada, Inc.’s CTA registration. These notices clearly
indicate that Canada, Inc. is the registrant.

50. On August 14, 2014, after Canada, Inc. was dissolved, Jousef filed an annual
CTA registration update for Canada, Inc. with the NFA indicating that Canada, Inc. remained a
Canadian corporation and that Jousef remained the President of Canada, Inc.

51. On June 26, 2015, Jousef filed another annual CTA registration update for
Canada, Inc. with the NFA indicating that Canada, Inc. remained a Canadian corporation and
that Jousef remained the President of Canada, Ine.

52. Even after Canada, Inc. was no longer a viable business entity and, therefore, no
longer a CTA, and notwithstanding that Jousef had never been registered with the Commission
asa CTA or in any other capacity, Jousef continued to represent himself as a CTA, including on

the futuresfx.ca and globaltraderoom.com websites, during the Relevant Period.

iH
 

ease 1:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 F OU22/20 Page LA of 29

$3. Defendants also described Jousef as a trader with thirteen years of trading
experience, a “Master Trader,” the “Head Trader,” and as someone who was “voted as one of the
top five traders in the world,” despite the fact that he admitted that he never traded live during
the “Live Trading Room.”

Defendants Failed to Make the Required Disclesures

54. During the Relevant Period, Defendants placed testimonials on the futuresfx.ca
and globaltraderoorn.com websites, as well as on email advertisements, without prominently
disclosing that such testimonials may not be representative of the experience of other Members,
or that such testirnonials were not guarantees of future performance.

55. During the Relevant Period, Defendants referred to the performance and
profitability of simulated or hypothetical trades, but they did not prominently disclose that such
results were the result of simulated or hypothetical trades.

56. On globaltradercom.com’s “Performance Track Record” section, Defendants
described their performance as the result of trades “with a live account with real money.”
Although they included a general disclosure about hypothetical or simulated performance, they
did not state that their performance results were hypothetical or simulated.

Jausef Controlled Futures FX

a
a

During the Relevant Period, Jousef was the sole owner of FuturesFX.

58. During the Relevant Period, Jousef was in charge of ail of FuturesFX’s
operations, and responsible for all operational decisions.

59. During the Relevant Period, Jousef controlled the content on the fisturesfx.ca and

globaltraderoom.com websites.

12
2ase P:o-cv-Ol840G-PAE Document 28 F

 

OU22/20 Page 1d of 29

60.  Thuring the Relevant Period, Jousef had the authority to hire, pay, authorize
payment to, and fire PuturesFX employees, agents, and contractors, including employees, agents,
and contractors located in the United States.

61. During the Relevant Period, Jousef had the authority to direct payments and
transfers for FuturesFX's bank accounts, including a bank account located in the United States.
B. Conclusions of Law

Jurisdiction and Venue
62. The Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Section Gc of the Act,
7 USC. § 13a-1 2018), which provides that whenever it shall appear to the Commission that
any person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a
violation of any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or order promulgated thereunder, the
Commission may bring an action in the proper District Court of the United States against such
person to enjoin such practice, or to enforce compliance with the Act, or any rule, regulation, or
rder thereunder. The Court also has jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331 (2018) (codifying
federal question jurisdiction) and 28 U.S.C. § 1345 (2018) (providing that district courts have
original jurisdiction over civil actions commenced by the United States or by any agency
expressly authorized to suc by Act of Congress). The Cornmission has jurisdiction aver the
forex transactions at issue im this case pursuant to Section 2(¢2)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
8 2(c2WC) (2018).

63. Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6e(e) of the Act, 7 ULS.C.
§ 13a-1¢e} (2018), because Defendants transacted business in this District, and certain
transactions, acts, and practices alleged in this Complaint occurred, are occurring, and/or are

about to occur within this District.

ms
as
 
 

nase 1:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page 14 of 29

Fraud By Misrepresentations and Omissions Regarding Live Trading,
Profitability, Performance, Risk of Loss, and Background

64. By the conduct described in paragraphs 17 through 61 above, Jousef, acting as a
CTA, through the use of the mails or other means or instrumentality of interstate commerce
Gneluding by telephone, email, and the Futures¥X and GTR websites or in any advertising),
violated Section 40(1)}(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 60(1 (A), (B} (2018), and Commission
Regulation 4.41 (a}(}) and (2), 17 CER. § 4.4100), (2) (2019), by making misrepresentations
and material omissions to Clients, including by:

a. Telling Members that Jousef executed live trades in a “Live Trading
Room” when in fact all of Jousef’s trading in the “Live Trading Room” was
simulated or hypothetical;

b. Telling Members that Defendants’ trading system earned significant
profits in dollar figures and describing their trading system as being highly
successful when Jousef admitted that he never executed any actual trades in a live
account; and

&. Telling Mernbers that Jousef was a CTA even after the corporation that
was registered as a CTA had been dissolved, and telling Members that Jousef had
years of trading experience when in fact Jousef did not trade on a live account in
the “Live Trading Room.”

65. By the conduct deseribed in paragraphs 17 through 61 above, Defendants
employed a scheme or artifice to defraud Members in connection with fisbires contracts traded on
registered entities by making misrepresentations and material omissions to Members, in violation
of Section 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2018), and Commission Regulation 180.1(a),

17 CER. § 180. 1a) 2019), including by:
a. Telling Members that Iousef executed live trades in a “Live Trading
Room” when in fact all of Jousef's trading in the “Live Trading Room” was

simulated or hypothetical;

b. Telling Members that Defendants’ trading system eamed significant
profits in dollar figures and describing their trading systern as being highly

14
   

Case LiS-cv-0 O4/22/20 Page

successfid when Jousef admitted that he never executed any actual trades in a live
account; and

c. Telling Members that Jousef was a CTA even after the corporation that
was registered as a CTA had been dissolved, and telling Members that Jousef had
years of trading experience when in fact Jousef did not trade on a live account in
the “Live Trading Room.”

Failure to Provide Required Disclosures

66. By the conduct described in paragraphs 17 through 61 above, Defendants, while
acting as a CTA, referred to testimonials on both the futuresfx.ca and globaltraderoom.com
websiies, as well as in ernail advertisements without prominently disclosing that the testimonials
were not representative of the experience of ciher Memibers and that the testimonials were no
guarantee of future performance or success, in violation of 17 C.F.R. § 4.41 fa}(3} (2019).

67. By the conduct described in paragraphs 17 through 61 above, Defendants
published the performance results of simulated or hypothetical trades but failed to prominently
disclose the prescribed disclosures in immediate proximity to this performance information, in
violation of 17 CPLR. 6 4.41(b).

Faise or Misleading Statements to the NFA

68. By the conduct described in paragraphs 17 through 61 above, Jousef knowingly
made false or misleading statements regarding material facts to the NFA when he submitted
annual CTA registration updates to the NFA indicating that Canada, Inc. remained a Canadian
corporation and that Jousef remained the President of Canada, Inc. when, in fact, he knew that he

had voluntarily dissolved Canada, Inc. at the time he made those false or misleading statements,

in violation of Section 9(a}(3) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(ay3} (2018).

15
 
 

nase i:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page 16 of 29

Principal and Agent, and Control Person Liability

69. The foregoing acts, omissions, and failures of FuturesFX’s employees and agents,
including Jousef, occurred within the scope of their employment, office, or agency with
FuturesF®. Therefore, pursuant to Section 2(a)(1})(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(2)(1)(B) (2018),
and Commission Regulation 1.2, 17 C.FLR. § 1.2 (2019), FuturesFX is liable for these acts,
ornissions, and failures in violation of 7 U.S.C. §§ 60(1}(A) and (B} and 9(4), and 17 CER.

§§ 4.41(a}(1)-(3), (b), and 186. 1(a).

70. Jousef controlled FuturesFX directly or indirectly and did not act in good faith or
knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, FuturesF X's acts in violation of the Act and
Regulations. Therefore, pursuant to Section 13(b} of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b} (2018), Jousef is
liable for FuturesFX’s violations of 7 U.S.C. §§ 6a(1)(A) and (B) and 9(1}, and 17 CLELR.

§§ 4.41(aX(1)-G), (©), and 180. ifa).

71. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, there is a reasonable likelihood that
Defendants will continue to engage in the acts and practices alleged in the Complaint and in
similar acts and practices in violation of the Act and Regulations.

IV. PERMANENT INJUNCTION

iT [8 HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

72. Based upon and in connection with the foregoing conduct, pursuant to Section 6c
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(2018), Defendants are permanently restrained, enjoined, and
prohibited from directly or indirectly:

a. as a CTA, using the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate

commerce to directly or indirectly employ any device, scheme, or artifice,

16
 

 

Document 28 F O4/22/20 Page 17 of 28

including any advertising, to defraud any client or participant or prospective client
or participant, or engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which
operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or participant or prospective client or
participant, in violation of Section 4o{1}(A} and (B) of the Act, 7 US.C.

§ 60(1)(4) and (B} (2018), and Commission Regulation 4.41 (a}(1) and 2}.

17 CER. § 4.41 (axl) and (2) (2019);

b. using or employing, or atterapting to use or employ, any manipulative
device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; making, or attempting to make, any untrue
or misleading statement of a material fact or omitting to state a material fact
necessary in order to make the staternents made not true or misleading; engaging,
of attempting to engage, in any act, practice, or course of business, which operates
or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person in violation of Section
6(c\(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(c}(1) (2018), and Commission Regulation
180.i(a), 17 C.PLR. § 180.1(a) (2019);

c. asa CTA, or any principal thereof, advertising in a manner which refers to
any testimonial, unless the advertisement or sales literature providing the
testimonial prominently discloses that the testimonial may not be representative of
the experience of other clients and that the testimonial is ne guarantee of future
performance or success, as required by Commission Regulation 4.41(a\3),

17 CPR. § 4.41 (a3) (201%; and

d. presenting the performance of any simulated or hypothetical commodity
interest account, unless a prescribed statement (stating, arnong other things, the

inherent limitations of hypothetical or simulated performance data) is disclosed

17
     

Document 28 F O4/22/20 Page

prominently and in immediate proximity to the simulated or hypothetical
performance in formation being presented, as required by 17 CER. § 4.41(b).
73.  Jousefis further permanently restrained, enjoined, and prohibited from directly or
indirectly knowingly making, or causing to be made, any statement in any application, report, or
document required to be filed under the Act or any rule or regulation thereunder or any
undertaking contained in a registration siatement required under the Act, or by any registered
entity or registered finures association in connection with an application for membership or
participation therein or to become associated with a member thereof, which statement was false
or misleading with respect to any material fact, or knowingly omitting any material fact required
to be stated therein or necessary to make the staternents therein not misleading, in violation of
Section 9(a}(3) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(33} (2018).
74, Defendants are also permanently restrained, enjoined, and prohibited from

directly or indirectly:

a. Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or

entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving

“coramodity interests” (as that term is defined in Regulation 13,17 C.F.R. $1.3

(20183:

b. Soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the

purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

fom Applying for registration or claiming exemption froma registration with the

Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such

registration or exernption from registration with the Commission except as

18
 
 

nase 1:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page 19 of 29

provided for in Coramission Regulation 4.14(a(9), 17 CER. § 4. 14(a9) (2019);
and
d. Acting 28 a principal (as that term is defined in Commission Regulation
3.1{aj, 17 CPLR. § 3.1 (a) (2019)), agent or any other officer or employee of any
person (as that term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)
(2018)), registered, exempted from registration or required to be registered with
the Commission except as provided for in Commission Regulation 4.14(a}(9),
17 CER. § 4.14(a9) (2019),
¥. RESTITUTION AND CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY

A. Restitution

75. Defendants shail pay, jointly and severally, restitution in the amount of one
million three hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000.00) (Restitution Obligation”), representing
the gains received in connection with such violations, plus post-judgment interest.

76. — Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the Restitution Obligation beginning on the
date of entry of this Consent Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Consent Order pursuant to 28 U.5.C. § 1961 (2018).

77. To effect payment of the Restitution Obligation and the distribution of any
restitution payments to Members, the Court appoints the NFA as Monitor (“Monitor”). The
Monitor shall receive restitution payments from Defendants and make distributions as set forth
below. Because the Monitor is acting as an officer of this Court in performing these services, the
NFA shail not be Hable for any action or inaction arising from NFA’s appointment as Monitor,

other than actions involving fraud.

19
2ase P:o-cv-Ol840G-PAE Document 28 F

 

OU22/20 Page ZO of 29

78. Defendants shall make Restitution Obligation payments under this Consent Order
to the Monitor in the name “CFTC v. FururesF-X, et al. — Settlement/Restitution Fund.”
Defendants shall send such Restitution Obligation payments by electronic funds transfer, or by
U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order, to the
Office of Adrninistration, National Futures Association, 300 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 1806,
Chicago, Hlincis 60606 under cover letter that identifies the paying Defendant and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. Defendants shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover
letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581] and
Steven Kim, Senior Trial Attorney, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Division of
Enforcement, 1155 21" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.

79, The Monitor shall oversee the Restitvion Obligation and shall have the discretion
to determine the manner of distribution of such funds in an equitable fashion tc Members
identified by the Commission or may defer distribution until such time as the Montior deems
appropriate. In the event that the amount of Restitution Obligation payments to the Monitor are
ofa de minimis nature such that the Monitor determines that the administrative cost of making a
distribution to eligible clients is impractical, the Monitor may, in its discretion, treat such
restitution payments as civil monetary penalty payments, which the Monitor shall forward to the
Commission following the instructions for civil monetary penalty payments set forth in Part V.B.
below.

80. Defendants shall cooperate with the Monitor as appropriate io provide such
information as the Monitor deems necessary and appropriate to identify Members to whom the

Monitor, in its sole discretion, may determine to include in any plan for distribution of any

20
Case 1:19-cv-08409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page 21 of 29

Restitution Obligation payments. Defendants shall execute any documents necessary to release
funds that they have in any repository, bank, investment, or other financial institution, wherever
located, in order to make partial or total payment toward the Restitution Obligation.

81. | The Monitor shall provide the Commission at the beginning of each calendar year
with a report detailing the disbursement of funds to Members during the previous year. The
Monitor shall transmit this report under a cover letter that identifies the name and docket number
of this proceeding to the Chief financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21° Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.

82. | The amounts payable to each Member shall not limit the ability of any Member
from proving that a greater amount is owed from Defendants or any other person or entity, and
nothing herein shall be construed in any way to limit or abridge the rights of any Member that
exist under state or common law.

83. Pursuant to Rule 71 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, each Member who
suffered a loss is explicitly made an intended third-party beneficiary of this Consent Order and
may seek to enforce obedience of this Consent Order to obtain satisfaction of any portion of the
disgorgement that has not been paid by Defendants to ensure continued compliance with any
provision of this Consent Order and to hold Defendants in contempt for any violations of any
provision of this Consent Order.

84. To the extent that any funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of
Defendants’ Restitution Obligation, such funds shall be transferred to the Monitor for

disbursement in accordance with the procedures set forth above.

21
 
 

nase 1:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page 22 of 29

B. Civil Monetary Penalty

85. Defendants shall pay, jointly and severally, a civil monetary penalty in the amount
of four hundred fifty thousand dollars ($450,000.00) (CMP Obligation”), phus post-judgment
interest.

86.  Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date
of entry of this Consent Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing
on the date of entry of this Consent Order pursuant to 28 T1S.C. § 1961.

87. Defendants shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by
electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank
money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment
shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Coramission and sent to the address
below:

MAC/ESC/AMK 326

Commodity Putures Trading Cormmission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HO Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

{405} 954-1620 fax
5-AMC-AR-CFTC@ faa gov

88. If payment by electronic fiunds transfer is chosen, Defendants shall contact Marie
Thome or her successor at the address above to receive payment instructions and shall fully
comply with those instructions. Defendants shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation
with a cover letter that identifies the Defendant and the name and docket number of this

proceeding. Defendants shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of

payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three

22
 
 

nase 1:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page 23 of 29

Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581, and Steven Kim, Senior
Trial Attorney, Cormmodity Futures Trading Commission, Division of Enforcement, 1195 21"
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.
c. Provisions Related te Monetary Sanctions
89, Partial Satisfaction: Acceptance by the Cornmission or the Monitor of any partial
payment of Defendants’ Restitution Obligation or CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver
of their obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Consent Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any reroaining balance.
VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
90. Notice: All notices required to be given by any provision in this Consent Order
shall be sent certified mail, return receipt requested, as follows:
Notice to Commission:

Richard A. Glaser, Deputy Director

Division of Enforcement

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

1155 21% Street, MW.

Washington, D.C. 20581

Notice to Defendants

Jeffrey D. Barclay, Esq.

Howard & Howard

200 South Michigan Avenue

Suite 1100

Chicago, IL 60604
All such notices to the Commission shall reference the name and docket number of this action.

91. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Defendants satisfy in full their

Restitution Obligation and CMP Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Defendants shall

23
 

Pase L1S-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28) | OU22/20 Page 24 of 29

provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to their telephone
number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

92. Entire Agreement and Amendments: This Consent Order incorporates all of the
terms and conditions of the settlement among the parties hereto to date. Nothing shall serve to
amend or modify this Consent Order in any respect whatsoever, unless: (a) reduced to writing;
(b) signed by all parties hereto; and (c) approved by Order of this Court.

93.  Invalidation: [f any provision of this Consent Order or if the application of any
provision or circumstance is held invalid, then the remainder of this Consent Order and the
application of the provision to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected by the
holding.

94, Waiver: The failure of any party to this Consent Order or of any Member at any
time te require performance of any provision of this Consent Order shall in no manner affect the
right of the party or Member at a later time to enforce the same or any other provision of this
Consent Order. No waiver in one or more instances of the breach of any provision contained in
this Consent Order shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of such
breach or waiver of the breach of any other provision of this Consent Order.

95. Waiver of Service, and Acknowledgement: Defendants waive service of this
Consent Order and agree that entry of this Consent Order by the Court and filing with the Clerk
of the Court will constitute notice to Defendants of its terms and conditions.

96. Continuing Jurisdiction of this Court: This Court shail retain jurisdiction of this
action to ensure compliance with this Consent Order and for all other purposes related to this
action, including any motion by Defendants io modify or for relief from the terms of this

Consent Order.

24
2ase P:o-cv-Ol840G-PAE Document 28 F

 

OU22/20 Page 25 af 29

97,  Injunctive and Equitable Relief Provisions: The injunctive and equitable relief
provisions of this Consent Order shall be binding upon Defendants, upon any person under their
authority or control, and upon any person who receives actual notice of this Consent Order, by
personal service, e-mail, facsimile, or otherwise insofar aa he or she is acting in active concert or
participation with Defendants.

98. Authority: FuturesFX hereby warrants that Simon Jousef is the Owner of
FutaresFX and thai this Consent Order has been duly authorized by FuturesFX, and Simon
Jousef has been duly empowered to sign and submit this Consent Order on behalf of FuturesFX.

99. Counterparts and Facsimile Execution: This Consent Order may be executed in
two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall
become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto
and delivered (by facsimile, e-mail, or otherwise) to the other pariy, it being understood that all
parties need not sign the same counterpart. Any counterpart other signature to this Consent
Order that is delivered by any means shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and
valid execution and delivery by such party of this Consent Order.

100. Contempt: Defendants understand that the terms of the Consent Order are
enforceable through contempt proceedings, and that, in any such proceedings they may not
challenge the validity of this Consent Order.

101. Agreements and Undertakings: Defendants shall comply with all of the

undertakings and agreements set forth in this Consent Order.
 
 

nase 1:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 Filed 04/22/20 Page 26 of 29

There being no just reason for delay, the Clerk of the Court is hereby ordered to enter this
Consent Order far Permanent Injunction, Civil Monetary Penalties, and Other Equitable Relief

Against Defendants PuturesEX and Simon Jousef forthwith and without further notice.

 
COMSENTED TO AND APPROVED BY:

pees Tbe hoa
¢ a ) “ ee

eo if
be aS

ren bs ares BE eh rey

Teel a kD
bw WR me fos 1

Ageterall a5 #9 form

Eee

nO)

Os)

Amctey ter FUTURES ged Si (CN) ROU

 
2ase 1:19-cv-O8409-PAE Document 28 Fil

CONSENTED TO AND APPROVED BY:

For Defendant FUTURESFX:

 

Simon Jousef
Owner, PuturesFX

Dated:
For Defendant SIMON JOUSEF, Individually

SIMON JOUSEF

Dated:

Approved as jo-gorm:
/

2 foo
a De cnanannnensansnn sis

JEFFREY BD. BARCLAY, ESQ.
Howard & Howard

200 South Michigan Street
Suite 1100

Chicago, IL. 60604

Attorney for FUTURESFX and SIMON JOUSEF

27

 
 

dOd/e2/20 Page 28 af 29

For Plaintiff:

Steven Kim

Senior Trial Atorney

Division of Enforcement

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
1155 21" Street, NW.

Washington, D.C. 20581
 

CONSENTED TO AND APPROVED BY:

For Defendant FUTURESFX:

Simon Jousef
Owner, FuturesFX

Dated:

For Defendant SIMON JOUSEF, Individually

SIMON JOUSEF

Dated:

Approved as to form:

JEFFREY D. BARCLAY, ESQ.
Howard & Howard

200 South Michigan Street
Suite 1100

Chicago, IL 60604

Attomey for FUTURESFX and SIMON JOUSEF

27

to)

 

For Plaintiff:

Ve

Kathleen A. Banar

Chief Trial Attorney

Steven Kim

Senior Trial Attorney

Division of Enforcement

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
1155 21 Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20581
