UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 81222 / July 27, 2017

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 3884 / July 27, 2017

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-18080

 

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
Halliburton Company and EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
Jeannot Lorenz, FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST
Respondents. ORDER
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission’’) deems it
appropriate that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act’), against Halliburton Company
(“Halliburton”) and Jeannot Lorenz (collectively, the “Respondents”).

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers
of Settlement which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these
proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which
the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the
Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are
admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings,
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
II.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers of Settlement, the Commission finds!
that:

SUMMARY

1. This matter concerns violations of the books and records and internal accounting
controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Halliburton, a global
oilfield services company, headquartered in Houston, Texas, and its former Vice-President,
Jeannot Lorenz, a citizen of France and permanent resident of the United States.

2. From April 2010 through April 2011, Halliburton paid $3,705,000 to a local
Angolan company that Halliburton had proposed to a Sonangol Official to fulfill local content
obligations. The local Angolan company was owned by a former Halliburton employee and a
friend and neighbor of the Sonangol government official and some of the payments were made in
advance of Halliburton obtaining lucrative oilfield services contracts. The Sonangol official,
who had authority to veto or reduce subcontracts awarded to Halliburton by large international
oil companies, approved Halliburton’s local content proposal.

3. The payments to the local Angolan company were made under two contracts
arranged and negotiated by Lorenz and others: (1) a September 2009 Interim Consulting
Agreement, and (11) a May 2010 Real Estate Transaction Management Agreement. Halliburton
entered into these contracts in violation of its own internal accounting controls and did not record
the true nature of the transactions in its books and records. Specifically, the two contracts were
entered into for the purpose of paying the local Angolan company to satisfy local content
requirements, not for the stated scope of work set forth in each contract. In addition, Halliburton
entered into the contracts without following all of the terms of its internal accounting controls
governing such transactions.

4. Lorenz negotiated and entered into the agreements with the local Angolan
company while knowingly circumventing certain Halliburton internal accounting controls. Also,
Lorenz falsified books and records by knowingly providing inaccurate scopes of work and other
information contained in the agreements. Lorenz, therefore, personally violated provisions that
prohibit knowingly circumventing internal accounting controls and falsifying books and records,
and also caused Halliburton’s violations of the books and records and internal accounting
controls provisions of the FCPA.

RESPONDENTS

5. Halliburton Company is a Delaware oilfield services corporation, headquartered
in Houston, Texas. Its common stock is registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and
trades on the NYSE. During the relevant time period, Halliburton had more than 70,000

 

, The findings herein are made to pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any

other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
employees operating in over 70 countries with country managers that report to regional
managers. In February 2009, Halliburton entered into a settlement with the Commission over a
bribery scheme executed by Halliburton’s former wholly-owned subsidiary, KBR, Inc. (by then a
separate U.S. issuer), and KBR’s former CEO, and consented to the entry of a final judgment
enjoining it from violating the books and records and internal accounting controls provisions of
the FCPA and, jointly and severally with KBR, disgorged $177 million of ill-gotten gains.
Separately, as a result of a parallel investigation with the Department of Justice, KBR paid a
criminal fine of $382 million.

6. Jeannot C. Lorenz (age 65) is a French citizen with permanent residence status
in the United States who is currently residing in Angola. He is a former Halliburton Vice-
President who had been the country manager in charge of Halliburton’s operations in Angola
from 1993 to 2002. He returned to Angola to serve as interim country manager from mid-2004
through early-2005. Beginning in April 2008, while officially working for Halliburton in Brazil,
Lorenz was appointed to lead the company’s local content efforts in Angola. Lorenz left the
company in late 2013.

FACTS

7. In early 2008, Sonangol officials told Halliburton management that Sonangol was
considering vetoing further subcontract work for Halliburton in Angola because Halliburton had
insufficient local content and was not compliant with Angola’s local content regulations
governing foreign companies operating in Angola. Sonangol officials made it clear that
Halliburton needed to partner with more local Angolan-owned businesses in order to satisfy local
content requirements. In response, starting in April 2008, Halliburton tasked Lorenz to
spearhead efforts to find local content in Angola that would be acceptable to Sonangol. Lorenz
previously worked for Halliburton in Angola where he had established relationships and
networks with many Angolans, including Sonangol and other government officials. During 2008
and early 2009, Lorenz and Halliburton considered a variety of potential local content projects
and kept Sonangol officials apprised of their progress. In 2008, Halliburton finalized and
commenced one separate local content project not involving the local Angolan company. This
separate project fulfilled Halliburton’s local content obligations for contracts that were up for bid
in 2008.

8. By April 2009, another round of contracts for other joint Sonangol/international
oil company projects was coming up for bid. Halliburton understood that the 2008 local content
efforts would not count for this new round of contract bids. Halliburton also learned from a
variety of sources, including the head of an international oil company’s operations in Angola,
that Sonangol remained extremely dissatisfied with Halliburton’s local content efforts and that
Sonangol might veto the international oil company’s recommendations that Halliburton be
awarded certain contracts in Angola. In response, Lorenz proposed that Halliburton offer to
outsource approximately $15 million of unspecified services to a local Angolan company that
was owned by a former Halliburton employee who was a friend and neighbor of the government
official who would on Sonangol’s behalf approve the award of the contracts in question to
Halliburton. Lorenz knew of the relationship between the owner of the local Angolan company
and the Sonangol government official. On April 29, 2009, Halliburton senior executives met
with the Sonangol government official at Sonangol’s headquarters in Luanda and discussed
Lorenz’s proposal for local content. Thereafter, Lorenz began a lengthy effort to retain this local
Angolan company in order to fulfill Halliburton’s proposal, making three attempts to do so.

9. Lorenz first proposed retaining the local Angolan company as a commercial agent
and paying a fee equal to 2% of Halliburton’s existing revenue earned in Angola. Lorenz
projected that Halliburton would pay a fee of approximately $4 million for the remaining 6
months in 2009 which would rise to $15 million by 2013. However, Lorenz’s proposal to pay a
fee on existing revenues (as opposed to newly obtained business) was rejected by Lorenz’s direct
management because (i) Halliburton declined to add any agents in Africa during that time period,
and (11) Halliburton generally retained commercial agents to obtain new business for Halliburton
and paid the agent a percentage of the new business as a commission or fee. As outlined by
Halliburton’s legal department, to retain the local Angolan company as a commercial agent, it
would be required to undergo a lengthy due diligence and review process that included retaining
outside U.S. legal counsel experienced in FCPA compliance to conduct interviews.

Halliburton’s in-house counsel noted that “[t]his is undoubtedly a tortuous, painful
administrative process, but given our company’s recent US Department of Justice/SEC
settlement, the board of directors has mandated this high level of review.” As a result of the
internal disapproval, Lorenz abandoned the idea of retaining the local Angolan company as a
commercial agent.

10. —_ Lorenz then proposed to directly outsource some of Halliburton’s in-house
functions to the local Angolan company without competitive bidding. However, in order to
comply with the company’s internal accounting controls, Halliburton’s procurement personnel
required a competitive bidding process to outsource real estate maintenance, travel and ground
transportation services in which the preferred local Angolan company would compete.
Halliburton personnel in Angola and procurement specialists from Houston conducted the
competitive bidding. As the bidding process would take several months to complete, Lorenz
considered it imperative to show “good faith” by beginning to engage and pay the local Angolan
company some money. Accordingly, in July 2009 — before the initial request for quotes in the
bidding process was issued in October 2009 — Lorenz began negotiating a “bridge agreement.”
The initial draft was a six-month “consulting agreement” beginning in September 2009 for
$30,000 per month. By late October 2009, after further negotiations, the amount was increased
to $45,000 per month. The effective date of the agreement remained September 2009, despite
that November was about to begin and the contract had not been signed.

11. The real reason for the interim consulting agreement — to provide bridge payments
as a show of good faith to the Sonangol government official and the local Angolan company
until the latter successfully emerged from the bidding process — did not appear in the agreement.
Rather, the scope of work falsely stated that the local Angolan company would be “developing
reports with respect to findings and recommendations” addressing local content requirements
and how Halliburton could meet those requirements with respect to areas of travel, local
logistics, and real estate. In order to secure approval for the draft agreement in the fall of 2009,
Lorenz made false statements that led other Halliburton employees to believe that the local
Angolan company had already provided and would continue to provide actual services under the
consulting agreement. However, the agreement was not executed and payments under the
agreement were not made until beginning in February 2010.

12. —_ Halliburton’s internal accounting controls required that the supplier qualification
process begin with an assessment of the criticality or risk of a material or service, not with a
particular supplier. Instead, Lorenz started with a particular supplier (the local Angolan
company) and then backed into a list of services it could provide. Lorenz also violated
Halliburton internal accounting controls by entering into the interim consulting agreement
without either seeking competitive bids or providing an adequate single source justification.
Lorenz failed to comply with an internal accounting control that required contracts over $10,000
in countries with a high risk of corruption, such as Angola, to be reviewed and approved by a
Tender Review Committee.

13. By January 2010, nine months had passed since Halliburton had proposed to
Sonangol that it would use the local Angolan company to satisfy local content requirements.
Both Sonangol and the proposed local Angolan company believed that Halliburton was failing to
comply with local content requirements, thus risking the award of significant contracts scheduled
for mid-2010. At this moment of crisis, Lorenz asked a Halliburton senior executive to meet
with the Sonangol government official as soon as possible to renew Halliburton’s local content
commitment and the April 2009 proposal. On January 13, 2010, in the middle of an unrelated
trip through the Middle East, the Halliburton senior executive flew to Portugal to meet the
Sonangol government official at the vacation home of the Sonangol government official’s friend,
the owner of the local Angolan company. Both Lorenz and the friend were present. The
Halliburton senior executive explained to the Sonangol government official the delays associated
with a large company’s procurement processes and affirmed that Halliburton was negotiating a
deal with the local Angolan company to satisfy local content requirements. The Halliburton
senior executive also asked the Sonangol government official for his support for the international
oil company’s award of an upcoming contract to Halliburton, in light of progress Halliburton
was making to satisfy Halliburton’s local content requirements.

14. In February 2010, Halliburton’s procurement personnel reviewed the bids for real
estate maintenance, travel and ground transportation services, and the preferred local Angolan
company was the least successful of the bidders. The local Angolan company did not submit a
bid for the travel portion but submitted bids for real estate maintenance and ground
transportation. The local Angolan company’s bid was 90% to 447% higher than the next highest
bid for the property maintenance and was 42% to 126% higher in ground transportation. As
noted by a Halliburton employee in a February 9, 2010 email evaluating the bids, the local
Angolan company “is a very expensive solution (non-competitive and not justified based on their
proposal)... .” Nonetheless — and notwithstanding the apparent availability of other Angolan
bidders to satisfy local content requirements -- Halliburton officials believed that they needed to
use the preferred local Angolan company as their local content because they had committed they
would do so. According to the February 9, 2010 email, Lorenz was “scrambling to find [a]
justification” to award the business to the local Angolan company.

15. Lorenz and others unsuccessfully attempted to negotiate with the local Angolan
company for an acceptable price for the services based on the bids received from others. The
owner of the local Angolan company, however, insisted on an unexplained, non-negotiable
monthly “fixed cost” of no less than $250,000 above his costs. On February 22, 2010, the local
Angolan company refused to negotiate further. Desperate for a solution, and feeling intense
pressure to get the deal with the local Angolan company done, Lorenz and others pivoted from
the outsourced services contemplated under the bidding process to a new proposal where the
local Angolan company would lease commercial and residential real estate and then sublease the
properties to Halliburton at a substantial markup, and also provide real estate transaction
management consulting services. The preferred local Angolan company had minimal experience
in these areas and the services could have been provided more cheaply if done internally by
Halliburton personnel. Nonetheless, on February 23, 2010, Halliburton issued a letter of intent to
enter into contracts with the local Angolan company for real estate transaction management
consulting services and subleases for office and residential space. The local Angolan company
owner accepted the letter of intent and contacted the Sonangol official to inform him of the
agreement in principle.

16. By again selecting a particular supplier — rather than determining the critical
services and then selecting the appropriate supplier — and doing so without competitive bidding
or substantiating the need for a single source, Lorenz violated Halliburton’s internal accounting
controls. Also, another Halliburton internal accounting control required its Real Estate Services
department to manage the process of subleasing real property and initiating contracts for
professional services related to the acquisition or disposition of property. Initially, no one from
Real Estate Services was consulted about the need for these services, let alone managed the
process. Ultimately, although employees from Halliburton’s Real Estate Services Department
assisted in drafting the contract, Lorenz and others outside of Real Estate Services managed and
executed the agreement.

17. Near contemporaneously with the signing of the letter of intent, Lorenz and the
local Angolan company finally executed the Interim Consulting Agreement in February 2010.
That agreement remained backdated to September 2009 and Halliburton paid the local Angolan
company $405,000 for the period of September 2009 through May 2010 even though the local
Angolan company never provided the services enumerated in the agreement.

18. In late March 2010, as part of review processes required by Halliburton’s internal
accounting controls in approving contracts over a certain value threshold high risk countries like
Angola, personnel from the Finance & Accounting department, both at the region and
headquarters, raised concerns about the proposed Real Estate Transaction Management
Agreement. Specifically, they questioned the use of single source procurement, the upfront
payment terms, the high costs, and the rationale for entering into subleases for properties that
would cost less if leased directly from the landlord. One Finance & Accounting reviewer at
headquarters noted that he could not think of any legitimate reason to pay the local Angolan
company over $13 million under the Real Estate Transaction Management Agreement and that it
would not have cost that much to run Halliburton’s entire real estate department in Angola.
These concerns were raised with and vetted within the Finance & Accounting supervisory chain,
and with Halliburton senior corporate executives. The senior executives understood that the
commercial terms were onerous but allowed the contract reviews to proceed because they
believed that by this time only this agreement with the local Angolan company would satisfy
Sonangol as to Halliburton’s local content commitments.

19. On May 1, 2010, Lorenz signed the Real Estate Transaction Management
Agreement with the local Angolan company. Halliburton agreed to pay the local Angolan
company $275,000 per month for four years to purportedly (1) manage real estate transactions in
and around Luanda, Angola, (11) develop a strategy for Halliburton’s staff housing, (111) develop a
strategy for “off base” leasing of commercial space, (iv) streamline the leasing process, and (v)
produce quarterly reports relating to planning, costs and market conditions. Halliburton did not
receive any meaningful services under this agreement and the local Angolan company failed to
produce the required reports except for one unfinished report that was found in Lorenz’s house in
Angola in 2011 that appeared to be plagiarized wholly from internet sources. Halliburton
terminated payments to the local Angolan company in April 2011 after receiving an anonymous
email in December 2010 alleging possible misconduct surrounding the transactions with the local
Angolan company.

20. According to Halliburton’s internal accounting controls, using a single source is
justified when “there is a significant advantage to the Company in soliciting a bid from only one
supplier, although more than one supplier may be capable of supplying the product or service.”
Halliburton’s internal accounting controls indicated that using a single source “typically occurs
when a supplier is clearly preferred for quality, technical, execution or other reasons.” In this
case, the supplier was not preferred for quality or technical reasons or its ability to execute.
Instead it was chosen to fulfill Halliburton’s local content commitment to Sonangol. Halliburton
internal accounting controls also mandated that when using a single source vendor without
competitive bidding, the underlying reasons “should be clearly identified and justified by
referencing an existing approved Single Source justification.” The purpose of this control is to
provide needed information to company auditors in their effort to test whether transactions were
undertaken for legitimate reasons and not due to improper considerations.

21. Although possible justifications for selecting the local Angolan company may
have been discussed in some company emails, the documentation entered into Halliburton’s
accounting system in May 2010 provided no justification for choosing the local Angolan
company as a single source provider. The purported justifications merely described in summary
form the terms of the agreements. As a consequence, internal audit was kept in the dark about
the transactions and its late 2010 yearly review did not examine them. While internal audit did
not examine the agreements with the local Angolan company in its late 2010 yearly review in
Angola, it did note, from the transactions it did examine, that most of the filed single source
justifications contained “inadequate information on the SSJ [Single Source Justification] to
support why sole sourcing was necessary.”

22. From April 2010 through April 2011, when Halliburton terminated payments to
the local Angolan company because of the allegations of misconduct, Halliburton paid the local
Angolan company $3,705,000 under the interim consulting agreement and the Real Estate
Transaction Management Agreement. Between May and December 2010, Sonangol approved
the award of seven lucrative subcontracts to Halliburton and Halliburton profited by
approximately $14 million.
23. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff, including making
foreign witnesses available, compiling financial data and analysis relating to the transactions at
issue, and making substantive presentations on key topics at the staff's request.

LEGAL STANDARDS AND VIOLATIONS

24. As aresult of the conduct described above, Halliburton violated Section
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers that have a class of securities registered
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act and issuers with reporting obligations pursuant to
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets.

25. As aresult of the conduct described above, Halliburton also violated
Section13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers that have a class of securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act and issuers with reporting obligations
pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (1) transactions are executed
in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (11) transactions are recorded
as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to
maintain accountability for assets; (111) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with
management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is
compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with
respect to any differences. As a result of the prior settlement, Halliburton had clearly defined
internal accounting controls governing, among other things, the selection and approval of
vendors in high risk countries, commercial agents and single source suppliers. However,
Halliburton failed to maintain these controls. Indeed, as there was a business need, the company
failed to comply with controls that were supposed to prevent further violations of the FCPA.

26. As aresult of his conduct described above, Jeannot Lorenz caused Halliburton’s
violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.

27. As aresult of his conduct described above, Jeannot Lorenz violated Section
13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits persons from knowingly circumventing or
knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, or knowingly falsifying
any book, record or account, and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, which prohibits persons from
directly or indirectly falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record, or account.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Halliburton cease-and-
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.

B. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Jeannot Lorenz cease-
and-desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections
13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.

C. Respondent Halliburton shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, disgorge
ill-gotten gains of $14,000,000 along with prejudgment interest of $1.2 million, and pay a civil
penalty of $14,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.

D. Respondent Jeannot Lorenz shall pay a civil penalty of $75,000, to the Securities
and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject
to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). Payment shall be made in the following installments:
Lorenz shall pay (1) $20,000 within 14 days of the entry of this Order, and (ii) an additional
$55,000 within 364 days of the entry of this Order. If any payment is not made by the date the
payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of the civil penalty, plus any
additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §
3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.

E. For both Respondents, payment must be made in one of the following ways:

(1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at hitp:/fwww.sec.gov/aboutfofficesfofm. htm; or

(3) Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter

identifying Halliburton or Jeannot Lorenz as a Respondent in these proceedings,
as appropriate, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter

9
and check or money order must be sent to Ansu Banerjee, Assistant Regional
Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Los
Angeles Regional Office, 444 South Flower Street, Suite 900, Los Angeles, CA
90071.

F, Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent Jeannot Lorenz agrees that in any
Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or
reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s
payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor
Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent Jeannot Lorenz agrees that he shall, within 30
days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in
this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to
change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this
paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against
Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as
alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.

G. Respondent Halliburton shall comply with the following undertakings:

1. Retain an independent consultant (the “Independent Consultant”) not
unacceptable to the Staff within ninety (90) calendar days after the issuance of
this Order. Within sixty (60) calendar days after the issuance of this Order,
Respondent shall recommend to the Staff a qualified candidate to serve as the
Independent Consultant. The Staff shall provide feedback to Respondent within
fifteen (15) calendar days of receiving Respondent’s recommendations.

2. The Independent Consultant candidate shall have, at a minimum, the following
qualifications: demonstrated expertise with respect to the FCPA, including
experience counseling on FCPA issues; experience designing and/or reviewing
corporate compliance policies, procedures, and internal controls, including FCPA-
specific policies, procedures, and internal controls; ability to access and deploy
resources as necessary to discharge the Independent Consultant’s duties as
described herein; and independence from Respondent to ensure effective and
impartial performance of the Independent Consultant’s duties.

3. The Independent Consultant should not have provided legal, auditing, or other
services to, or have had any affiliations with, the Respondent during the two years
prior to the issuance of this Order.

4. Respondent shall retain the Independent Consultant for a period of eighteen (18)

months from the date of the engagement. Respondent shall exclusively bear all
costs, including compensation and expenses, associated with the retention of the

10
Independent Consultant.

To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, Respondent shall not
have the authority to terminate the Independent Consultant without the prior
written approval of the Staff.

The Independent Consultant’s responsibility is to review and evaluate
Respondent’s anti-corruption policies and procedures, including policies and
procedures related to retaining local content and the use of single source
justifications, for Respondent’s business operations in Africa (“the Policies and
Procedures”) and to make recommendations designed to reasonably improve the
Policies and Procedures. This review and evaluation shall include an assessment
of the Policies and Procedures as actually implemented in Africa and how such
Policies and Procedures fit within Respondent’s ethics and compliance function.
The Independent Consultant shall consider whether the ethics and compliance
function has sufficient resources, authority, and independence, and provides
sufficient training and guidance to the business operations in Africa regarding the
Policies and Procedures described above.

Respondent and the Independent Consultant shall agree that the Independent
Consultant is an independent third-party and not an employee or agent of the
Respondent. In addition, Respondent and the Independent Consultant agree that
no attorney-client relationship shall be formed between them.

Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to enter in an agreement
with Respondent providing that, for the period of engagement and for a period of
two years from completion of the engagement, the Independent Consultant shall
not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other
professional relationship with Respondent, or any of its present or former
affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such.
Any firm with which the Independent Consultant is affiliated or of which he/she
is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Independent Consultant in
performance of his/her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written
consent of the Staff enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client,
auditing or other professional relationship with Respondent, or any of its present
or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their
capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two (2)
years after the engagement.

Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to prepare a written work
plan and submit it to Respondent and the Staff for comment within thirty (30)
calendar days of commencing the engagement. The Respondent’s comments
shall be provided to the Independent Consultant no more than thirty (30) calendar
days after receipt of the written work plan. In order to conduct an effective initial
review and to understand fully any deficiencies in the Policies and Procedures,
including how they fit within Respondent’s ethics and compliance function, the

11
10.

11.

12.

Independent Consultant’s initial work plan shall include such steps as are
reasonably necessary to develop an understanding of the facts and circumstances
surrounding any violations that may have occurred as reflected in this matter and
to assess the effectiveness of Respondent’s existing Policies and Procedures, and
of Respondent’s ethics and compliance program as they pertain to its business
operations in Africa. Any dispute between Respondent and the Independent
Consultant with respect to the work plan shall be decided by the Staff.

Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant, and the
Independent Consultant shall have the authority to take such reasonable steps as,
in his or her view, may be necessary to be fully informed about Respondent’s
Policies and Procedures in accordance with the principles set forth herein and
applicable law, including data protection, blocking statutes, and labor laws and
regulations applicable to Respondent. To that end Respondent shall provide the
Independent Consultant with access to all non-privileged information, documents,
records, facilities and/or employees, as requested by the Independent Consultant,
that fall within the scope of the Independent Consultant’s responsibility, except as
provided in this paragraph; and provide guidance on applicable laws (such as
relevant data protection, blocking statutes, and labor laws).

In the event the Respondent seeks to withhold from the Independent Consultant
access to information, documents, records, facilities and/or employees of
Respondent that may be subject to a claim of attorney-client privilege or to the
attorney work product doctrine, or where Respondent reasonably believes
production would otherwise be inconsistent with applicable law or beyond the
scope of these undertakings, Respondent shall work cooperatively with the
Independent Consultant. If the matter cannot be resolved, at the request of the
Independent Consultant, Respondent shall promptly provide written notice to the
Independent Consultant and the Staff. Such notice shall include a general
description of the nature of the information, documents, records, facilities and/or
employees that are being withheld, as well as the basis for the claim. To the
extent Respondent has provided information to the Staff in the course of the
investigation leading to this action pursuant to a non-waiver of privilege
agreement, Respondent and the Independent Consultant may agree to production
of such information to the Independent Consultant pursuant to a similar non-
waiver agreement.

Respondent shall require the Independent Consultant to issue a written report
(“Report”), within six (6) months after being retained to review Respondent’s
Policies and Procedures: (a) summarizing its review and evaluation, and (b) if
necessary, making recommendations based on its review and evaluation that are
reasonably designed to improve Respondent’s Policies and Procedures.
Respondent shall require that the Independent Consultant provide the Report to
the Board of Directors of Respondent and simultaneously transmit a copy to the
Staff at the following address: Ansu N. Banerjee, Assistant Regional Director,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 South

12
Flower Street, Suite 900, Los Angeles, California 90071.

13. Respondent shall adopt all recommendations in the Report within ninety (90) days
of the issuance of the Report; provided, however, that, as to any recommendations
that Respondent considers to be unduly burdensome, impractical, or costly,
Respondent need not adopt the recommendations at that time, but may submit in
writing to the Staff, within thirty (30) days of receiving the Report, an alternative
policy or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or purpose.
Respondent and the Independent Consultant shall attempt in good faith to reach
an agreement relating to each recommendation Respondent considers unduly
burdensome, impractical, or costly. In the event that Respondent and the
Independent Consultant are unable to agree on an alternative proposal within
thirty (30) days, Respondent will abide by the determinations of the Staff.

14. After 180 days of completion of the implementation, the Independent Consultant
shall have thirty (30) calendar days to complete a follow-up review to confirm
that Respondent has implemented the recommendations or agreed-upon
alternatives and continued the application of the Policies and Procedures, and to
deliver a supplemental report to the Board of Directors of Respondent and the
Staff setting forth its conclusions and whether any further improvements should
be implemented.

15. Respondent agrees that the Staff may extend any of the dates set forth above at its
direction.

16. Respondent shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth
above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits
sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Staff may make reasonable requests
for further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such
evidence. Respondent shall submit the certification and supporting material to
Ansu N. Banerjee, Assistant Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, with a
copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than
sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the undertakings.

17. Respondent agrees that these undertakings shall be binding upon any successor in
interest to Respondent or any acquirer of substantially all of Respondent’s assets
and liabilities or business.

V.

It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in
Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523, the findings in this Order are true and
admitted by Respondent Jeannot Lorenz, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment
interest, civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondent Jeannot Lorenz under this Order or

13
any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settkement agreement entered in connection
with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondent Jeannot Lorenz of the federal
securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section
523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

14
