Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 1of8

 

 
Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 2 of 8

Penalties

Bi The maximum sentence provided by statute for the offense to which the
Defendant is pleading guilty is as follows: imprisonment for 20 years, supervised release for
three years, and a fine of the greater of $500,000 or twice the amount of the property involved in
the transaction. In addition, the Defendant must pay $100 as a special assessment pursuant to 18
U.S.C. § 3013, which will be due and should be paid at or before the time of sentencing. This
Court may also order him to make restitution pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3663, 3663A, and 3664.
If a fine or restitution is imposed, it shall be payable immediately, unless, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
§ 3572(d), the Court orders otherwise.! The Defendant understands that if he serves a term of
imprisonment, is released on supervised release, and then violates the conditions of his
supervised release, his supervised release could be revoked - even on the last day of the term -
and the Defendant could be returned to custody to serve another period of incarceration and a
new term of supervised release. The Defendant understands that the Bureau of Prisons has sole
discretion in designating the institution at which the Defendant will serve any term of
imprisonment imposed.

Waiver of Rights

4, The Defendant understands that by entering into this agreement, he surrenders
certain rights as outlined below:

a. If the Defendant had persisted in his plea of not guilty, he would have had
the right to a speedy jury trial with the close assistance of competent counsel. That trial could be
conducted by a judge, without a jury, if the Defendant, this Office, and the Court all agreed.

b. If the Defendant elected a jury trial, the jury would be composed of twelve
individuals selected from the community. Counsel and the Defendant would have the
opportunity to challenge prospective jurors who demonstrated bias or who were otherwise
unqualified, and would have the opportunity to strike a certain number of jurors peremptorily.
All twelve jurors would have to agree unanimously before the Defendant could be found guilty
of any count. The jury would be instructed that the Defendant was presumed to be innocent, and
that presumption could be overcome only by proof beyond a reasonable doubt.

c, If the Defendant went to trial, the government would have the burden of
proving the Defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. The Defendant would have the right to
confront and cross-examine the government’s witnesses. The Defendant would not have to
present any defense witnesses or evidence whatsoever. If the Defendant wanted to call witnesses
in his defense, however, he would have the subpoena power of the Court to compel the witnesses
to attend.

 

' Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3612, if the Court imposes a fine in excess of $2,500 that remains
unpaid 15 days after it is imposed, the Defendant shal! be charged interest on that fine, unless the
Court modifies the interest payment in accordance with 18 U.S.C. § 3612(f)(3).
— Ne eeereeeee errr

Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 3 of 8

d. The Defendant would have the right to testify in his own defense if he so
chose, and he would have the right to refuse to testify. If he chose not to testify, the Court could
instruct the jury that they could not draw any adverse inference from his decision not to testify.

€. If the Defendant were found guilty after a trial, he would have the right to
appeal the verdict and the Court’s pretrial and trial decisions on the admissibility of evidence to
see if any errors were committed which would require a new trial or dismissal of the charges
against him. By pleading guilty, the Defendant knowingly gives up the right to appeal the
verdict and the Court’s decisions.

f. By pleading guilty, the Defendant will be giving up all of these rights,
except the right, under the limited circumstances set forth in the “Waiver of Appeal” paragraph
below, to appeal the sentence. By pleading guilty, the Defendant understands that he may have
to answer the Court’s questions both about the rights he is giving up and about the facts of his
case. Any statements the Defendant makes during such a hearing would not be admissible
against him during a trial except in a criminal proceeding for perjury or false statement.

g. If the Court accepts the Defendant’s plea of guilty, there will be no further
trial or proceeding of any kind, and the Court will find him guilty.

te By pleading guilty, the Defendant will also be giving up certain valuable
civil rights and may be subject to deportation or other loss of immigration status. The Defendant
recognizes that if he is not a citizen of the United States, pleading guilty may have consequences
with respect to his immigration status. Under federal law, conviction for a broad range of crimes
can lead to adverse immigration consequences, including automatic removal from the United
States. Removal and other immigration consequences are the subject of a separate proceeding,
however, and the Defendant understands that no one, including his attorney or the Court, can
predict with certainty the effect of a conviction on immigration status. Defendant nevertheless
affirms that he wants to plead guilty regardless of any potential immigration consequences.

Advisory Sentencing Guidelines Apply

 

5. The Defendant understands that the Court will determine a sentencing guidelines
range for this case (henceforth the “advisory guidelines range”) pursuant to the Sentencing
Reform Act of 1984 at 18 U.S.C. §§ 3551-3742 (excepting 18 U.S.C. §§ 3553(b)(1) and 3742(e))
and 28 U.S.C. §§ 991 through 998. The Defendant further understands that the Court will
impose a sentence pursuant to the Sentencing Reform Act, as excised, and must take into account
the advisory guidelines range in establishing a reasonable sentence.

Factual and Advisory Guidelines Stipulation

6. This Office and the Defendant understand, agree and stipulate to the Statement of
Facts set forth in Attachment A hereto, which this Office would have proved beyond a
reasonable doubt had this case proceeded to trial, and set forth the following agreed-upon and
disputed applicable sentencing guidelines factors:
Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 4 of 8

a. The base offense level is 6, pursuant to U.S.S.G. §§ 2S1.1(a)(1) and
2B1.1(a)(2), because Defendant was not convicted of an offense specifically referencing
§ 2B1.1.

b. The offense level is increased by 8 levels, pursuant to U.S.S.G.
§ 2B1.1(b)(1)(E), because the amount involved was more than $70,000 but less than $120,000.

C. The offense level is increased 2 levels, pursuant to U/S.S.G.
§ 281.1(b)(2)(B), because Defendant’s conduct involved a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956.

d. The offense level is increased 2 levels, pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 281.1(b)(3),
because the offense involved “sophisticated laundering,” including the use of a shell company
and offshore account.

e. The Defendant reserves the right to argue an adjustment for “minor
participant,” pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 3B1.2(B). The Government reserves the right to oppose
such an adjustment.

f. The adjusted offense level is 18 (the Government’s position) or 16 (the
Defendant’s position).

g. This Office does not oppose a 2 level reduction in the Defendant’s
adjusted offense level, based upon the Defendant’s apparent prompt recognition and affirmative
acceptance of personal responsibility for his criminal conduct. This Office agrees to make a
motion pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1(b) for an additional 1 level decrease in recognition of the
Defendant’s timely notification of his intention to plead guilty. This Office may oppose any
adjustment for acceptance of responsibility if the Defendant (a) fails to admit each and every
item in the factual stipulation; (b) denies involvement in the offense; (c) gives conflicting
statements about his involvement in the offense; (d) is untruthful with the Court, this Office, or
the United States Probation Office; (e) obstructs or attempts to obstruct justice prior to
sentencing; (f) engages in any criminal conduct between the date of this agreement and the date
of sentencing; or (g) attempts to withdraw his plea of guilty. The final offense level is 15 (the
Government’s position) or 13 (the Defendant’s position).

7. The Defendant understands that there is no agreement as to his criminal history or
criminal history category, and that his criminal history could alter his offense level if he is a
career offender or if the instant offense was a part of a pattern of criminal conduct from which he
derived a substantial portion of his income.

8. This Office and the Defendant agree that with respect to the calculation of the
advisory guidelines range, no other offense characteristics, sentencing guidelines factors,
potential departures or adjustments set forth in the United States Sentencing Guidelines will be
raised or are in dispute. If the Defendant intends to argue for any factor that could take the
sentence outside of the advisory guidelines range, he will notify the Court, the United States
Probation Officer, and government counsel at least 14 days in advance of sentencing of the facts
or issues he intends to raise.

 
 

 

Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 5 of 8

Obligations of this Office
9. At the time of sentencing, this Office will recommend a reasonable sentence.

10... The parties reserve the right to bring to the Court’s attention at the time of
sentencing, and the Court will be entitled to consider, all relevant information concerning the
Defendant’s background, character, and conduct.

Forfeiture

11. | The Defendant agrees that as part of his acceptance of responsibility and pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. § 981(a)(1)(C) and 28 U.S.C. § 2461, he will consent to the entry of a forfeiture
money judgment in the amount of $26,500 in United States currency (the “Forfeiture Money
Judgment”). The Defendant acknowledges that the $26,500 is subject to forfeiture as property,
real or personal, that was involved in, or was property traceable to property involved in, a money
laundering offense within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. §§ 982(a)(1) and 1956(h).

12. The Defendant agrees to consent to the entry of an order of forfeiture for the
Forfeiture Money Judgment and waives the requirements of Rules 32.2 and 43(a) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure regarding notice of the forfeiture in the charging instrument,
announcement of the forfeiture at sentencing, and incorporation of the forfeiture in the judgment.
The Defendant understands that the forfeiture of the Forfeiture Money Judgment is part of the
sentence that may be imposed in this case and waives any failure by the court to advise him of
this pursuant to Rule 11 (b)(1)(1) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure at the guilty plea
proceeding.

i t .
Assisting the Government with Regard to the Forfeiture

13. The Defendant agrees to assist fully in the forfeiture of the foregoing assets. The
Defendant agrees to disclose all of his assets and sources of income to the United States, and to
take all steps necessary to pass clear title to the forfeited assets to the United States, including but
not limited to executing any and all documents necessary to transfer such title, assisting in
bringing any assets located outside of the United States within the jurisdiction of the United
States, and taking whatever steps are necessary to ensure that assets subject to forfeiture are not
sold, disbursed, wasted, hidden or otherwise made unavailable for forfeiture. The Defendant
further agrees that he will not assist any third party in asserting a claim to the forfeited assets in
an ancillary proceeding and that he will testify truthfully in any such proceeding.

Waiver of Further Review of Forfeiture

14. The Defendant agrees to waive all constitutional, legal and equitable challenges
(including direct appeal, habeas corpus, or any other means) to any forfeiture carried out in
accordance with this Plea Agreement on any grounds, including that the forfeiture constitutes an
excessive fine or punishment or otherwise violates the Eighth Amendment. The Defendant also
agrees not to challenge or seek review of any civil or administrative forfeiture of any property
 

 

Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 6 of 8

subject to forfeiture under this agreement, and will not assist any third party with regard to such
challenge or review or with regard to the filing of a petition for remission of forfeiture.

Civil and Administrative Penalties

15. | The Defendant acknowledges that no representations have been made to him with
respect to any civil or administrative consequences that may result from this plea of guilty
because such matters are solely within the province and discretion of the specific administrative
or governmental entity involved. Further, the Defendant understands that this agreement does
not resolve any civil tax liability that he may have, and that this agreement is with the United
States Attorney’s Office and the Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section, not
with the Internal Revenue Service. The Defendant acknowledges that the Internal Revenue
Service is not a party to this agreement and remains free to pursue any and all lawful remedies it
may have.

Waiver of Appeal

16. In exchange for the concessions made by this Office and the Defendant in this
plea agreement, this Office and the Defendant waive their rights to appeal as follows:

a. The Defendant knowingly waives all rights, except his right to effective
assistance of counsel, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1291 or otherwise, to appeal the Defendant’s
conviction;

b. . The Defendant and this Office knowingly waive all rights, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. § 3742 or otherwise, to appeal whatever sentence is imposed (including the right to
appeal any issues that relate to the establishment of the advisory guidelines range, the
determination of the defendant’s criminal history, the weighing of the sentencing factors, and the
decision whether to impose and the calculation of any term of imprisonment, fine, order of
forfeiture, order of restitution, and term or condition of supervised release), except as follows:
(i) the Defendant reserves the right to appeal any term of imprisonment to the extent that it
exceeds any sentence within the advisory guidelines range resulting from an adjusted base
offense level of 15, and (ii) this Office reserves the right to appeal any term of imprisonment to
the extent that it is below any sentence within the advisory guidelines range resulting from an
adjusted base offense level of 13.

c. Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent the Defendant or
this Office from invoking the provisions of Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 35(a), or from
appealing from any decision thereunder, should a sentence be imposed that resulted from
arithmetical, technical, or other clear error.

d. The Defendant waives any and all rights under the Freedom of
Information Act relating to the investigation and prosecution of the above-captioned matter and
agrees not to file any request for documents from this Office or any investigating agency.
   

 

Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 7 of 8

Obstruction or Other Violations of Law

17. The Defendant agrees that he will not commit any offense in violation of federal,
state or local law between the date of this agreement and his sentencing in this case. In the event
that the Defendant (i) engages in conduct after the date of this agreement which would justify a
finding of obstruction of justice under U.S.S.G. § 3C1.1, or (ii) fails to accept personal
responsibility for his conduct by failing to acknowledge his guilt to the probation officer who
prepares the Presentence Report, or (iii) commits any offense in violation of federal, state or
local law, then this Office will be relieved of its obligations to the Defendant as reflected in this
agreement. Specifically, this Office will be free to argue sentencing guidelines factors other than
those stipulated in this agreement, and it will also be free to make sentencing recommendations
other than those set out in this agreement. As with any alleged breach of this agreement, this
Office will bear the burden of convincing the Court of the Defendant’s obstructive or unlawful
behavior and/or failure to acknowledge personal responsibility by a preponderance of the
evidence. The Defendant acknowledges that he may not withdraw his guilty plea because this
Office is relieved of its obligations under the agreement pursuant to this paragraph.

Court Not a Party

18. The Defendant expressly understands that the Court is not a party to this
agreement. In the federal system, the sentence to be imposed is within the sole discretion of the
Court. In particular, the Defendant understands that neither the United States Probation Office
nor the Court is bound by the stipulation set forth above, and that the Court will, with the aid of
the Presentence Report, determine the facts relevant to sentencing. The Defendant understands
that the Court cannot rely exclusively upon the stipulation in ascertaining the factors relevant to
the determination of sentence. Rather, in determining the factual basis for the sentence, the
Court will consider the stipulation, together with the results of the presentence investigation, and
any other relevant information. The Defendant understands that the Court is under no obligation
to accept this Office’s recommendations, and the Court has the power to impose a sentence up to
and including the statutory maximum stated above. The Defendant understands that if the Court
ascertains factors different from those contained in the stipulation set forth above, or if the Court
should impose any sentence up to the maximum established by statute, the Defendant cannot, for
that reason alone, withdraw his guilty plea, and will remain bound to fulfill all of his obligations
under this agreement. The Defendant understands that neither the prosecutor, his counsel, nor
the Court can make a binding prediction, promise, or representation as to what guidelines range
or sentence the Defendant will receive. The Defendant agrees that no one has made such a
binding prediction or promise.

Entire Agreement

19. This agreement supersedes any prior understandings, promises, or conditions
between this Office and the Defendant and constitutes the complete plea agreement in this case.
The Defendant acknowledges that there are no other agreements, promises, undertakings or
understandings between the Defendant and this Office other than those set forth in this
agreement and none will be entered into unless in writing and signed by all parties.
 

Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26 Filed 06/15/15 Page 8 of 8

If the Defendant fully accepts each and every term and condition of this agreement,
please sign and have the Defendant sign the original and return it to me promptly.
Very truly yours,

ANDREW WEISSMANN ROD J. ROSENSTEIN
Chief, Fraud Section United States Attorney
Criminal Division District of Maryland

Department of Justice

By: By:
Christopher Cesiaro avid I. Salem
Ephraim Wernick ‘Adam K, Ake
Derek Ettinger Michael T, Packard
Trial Attorneys Assistant United States Attomeys

T have read this agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with my attorney, I
understand it, and I voluntarily agree to it. Specifically, I have reviewed the Factual and
Advisory Guidelines Stipulation with my attomey, and I do not wish to change any part of i, |
am completely satisfied with the representation of my attorney.

6 ty (it ee
Date Boris Rubizhevsky

| am Boris Rubizhevsky’s attorney. I have carefully reviewed every part of this
agreement with him. He advises me that he understands and accepts its terms. To my
knowledge, his decision to enter into this agreement is an informed and voluntary one.

6 [ole Ve
Date Tg

  
|

 

 

 
 

—

Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26-1 Filed 06/15/15 Page 1of 3

hep, 4p LG [5
ATTACHMENT A: SEE,
STIPULATED FACTS ~ UNITED STATES v. BORIS RUBIZHEVSKY —*iS0up,

 

If this matter had proceeded to trial, the government would have proven the Pe 5p,
facts beyond a reasonable doubt. The parties agree that the following facts do not encompass all
of the facts that would have been proven had this matter proceeded to trial.

Between in or about October 2011 and continuing through in or about February 2013,

BORIS RUBIZHEVSKY (“RUBIZHEVSKY”) did willfully, and knowingly combine,

conspire, confederate and agree with Foreign Official One, Executive A and others to conduct
and attempt to conduct financial transactions which they knew to involve the proceeds of some
form of unlawful activity, knowing that the transactions were designed in whole and in part to
conceal and disguise the nature, location, source, ownership and control of the proceeds of said
distribution, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1)(B)(i).

RUBIZHEVSKY was a citizen of the United States and resident of New Jersey, and was
the owner and sole employee of NexGen Security Corporation (“NexGen”), based in New
Jersey.

JSC Techsnabexport (“TENEX”) supplied uranium and uranium enrichment services to
nuclear power companies throughout the world on behalf of the Russian Federation. TENEX
was indirectly owned and controlled by, and performed functions of, the government of the
Russian Federation.

TENEX established a wholly-owned subsidiary company located in the United States in
or about October 2010, TENAM Corporation (“TENAM”). TENAM, which was incorporated in
Maryland, was TENEX’s official representative office in the United States. TENAM was
indirectly owned and controlled by, and performed functions of, the government of the Russian
Federation.

Foreign Official One, a national of the Russian Federation, was a Director of TENEX
from at least 2004 through in or about October 2010, and was the President of TENAM from in
or about October 2010 through in or about October 2014. From in or about December 2011
through in or about October 2014, Foreign Official One was a resident of Maryland.

Cylinder Corporation A was a company, based in Ohio, which engaged in the
manufacture of tanks and vessels for the oil and gas, nuclear, and marine markets. Cylinder
Corporation A secured contracts with TENEX to supply storage and transportation cylinders. In
or about September 2012, Cylinder Corporation A was acquired by another company
headquartered in Ohio.

Executive A was an officer of Cylinder Corporation A.
Between at least in or about October 2011 and in or about February 2013, Foreign

Official One, Executive A, and others entered into a conspiracy and devised and executed a
scheme and artifice to defraud TENEX of money and property and of the intangible right to

 
 

2 ————————eEeEeEeEEEEee—EeEeEEEEj*x~_ seers

Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26-1 Filed 06/15/15 Page 2 of 3

Foreign Official One’s honest services through a scheme for Foreign Official One to obtain
payments from Cylinder Corporation A, which made those payments for the purpose of
attempting to secure a competitive and unfair advantage in acquiring business with TENEX (“the
scheme to defraud”).

In order to conceal the scheme to defraud, Foreign Official One and Executive A engaged
intermediaries, including RUBIZHEVSKY, to transfer payments from Cylinder Corporation A
into foreign bank accounts for the benefit of Foreign Official One. RUBIZHEVSKY conducted
the financial transactions knowing the transactions involved the proceeds of the scheme to
defraud and knowing that the purpose of his involvement in the transactions was to conceal the
nature, source, ownership and control of the proceeds.

It was part of the scheme to defraud that Foreign Official One provided Cylinder
Corporation A, which was attempting to secure contracts with TENEX and which made
payments for the purpose of attempting to secure an unfair advantage, with assistance in
obtaining contracts with TENEX. In furtherance of the scheme to defraud, Foreign Official One
sent electronic mail (“email”) to RUBIZHEVSKY, including an email dated November 18,
2011, instructing RUBIZHEVSKY to verify that Executive A received an instruction for
Cylinder Corporation A to submit “fake” tender documents to TENEX. Foreign Official One
informed RUBIZHEVSKY in the email that “[t]his is for secure measures if someone will
search the formalities.” In addition to communicating through email, Foreign Official One and
RUBIZHEVSKY met with each other in person in Maryland to discuss aspects of the scheme to
defraud.

In furtherance of the money laundering conspiracy, RUBIZHEVSKY and his co-
conspirators, among other things, knowingly created sham contracts, communicated via email,
and caused wire payments to be made. For example, RUBIZHEVSKY entered into sham
consulting agreements with both Cylinder Corporation A and a corporation in the United
Kingdom. RUBIZHEVSKY did not provide the consulting services described in the
agreements. Instead, as described in the following paragraph, RUBIZHEVSKY merely
received payments from Cylinder Corporation A and made payments as directed by, and for the
benefit of, Foreign Official One.

In or about July 2012, RUBIZHEVSKY received a $16,500 payment from Cylinder
Corporation A. Shortly thereafter, RUBIZHEVSKY provided Foreign Official One with access
to money from a bank account in Switzerland, and Foreign Official One later provided
RUBIZHEVSKY with a portion of that money. Subsequently, in or about November 2012,
RUBIZHEVSKY received a $91,500 payment from Cylinder Corporation A’s bank account,
and shortly thereafter, RUBIZHEVSKY wired $60,000 from the NexGen bank account into a
Latvian bank account, at the direction of Foreign Official One and for the benefit of Foreign
Official One.

As set forth above, RUBIZHEVSKY knowingly participated with Foreign Official One,
Executive A, and others in financial transactions involving the proceeds of wire fraud and wire
fraud conspiracy that were designed to conceal the nature, location, source, ownership and

 

 
Case 8:15-cr-00332-TDC Document 26-1 Filed 06/15/15 Page 3 of 3

control of those proceeds. RUBIZHEVSKY’s agreement and involvement in the money
laundering conspiracy resulted in at least’ $70,000, but less than $120,000, of laundered funds.

I have read this statement of facts and carefully reviewed it with my attorney. I
acknowledge that it is true and correct.

6 (us (17 0. ade t veg,

Date Boris Rubizhevsky

I am Boris Rubizhevsky’s attorney. I have carefully reviewed the statement of facts with

him.
(5 [15 (s
Dat € Gorokhov, Esq.

11

 
