aera - PUBLIC VERSION

 

In the Matter of Claims for Award by:

Redacted (“Claimant l my
Redacted

CFTC Whistleblower Award

Redacted (“Claimant 2”),
Determination No. 20-WB-04

Redacted

Redacted (“Claimant 3%):
Redacted

Redacted (“Claimant 4”),

Redacted - an d

Redacted (“Claimant ge
Redacted

Redacted

In Connection With
Notice of Covered Action No. ****<'*¢

eee Nae eee ee ee Se ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

 

ORDER DETERMINING WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD CLAIMS

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) received whistleblower
award applications from five claimants in response to the Commission’s Notice of Covered
Action No. **“*** regarding ae

(collectively, the “Covered Action”) and related actions taken by the
a .' The Claims Review Staff (“CRS”) issued a Preliminary
Determination recommending that Claimant 1, Claimant 3, and Claimant 4 each receive
whistleblower awards of ' %, and that Claimant 2 receive a slightly higher award of | %, of the
monetary sanctions collected in the Covered Action and the Related Action. As the Commission
has collected a total of $ “**“* in connection with the Covered Action, and the ““*" has

 

1 Redacted

(collectively.
referred to as the “Related Action’). Claimant 5 did not request an award in connection with the Related Action.

 

 
 

 

Redacted - PUBLIC VERSION

collected a total of $ “in connection with the Related Action, Claimant 1, Claimant 3,
and Claimant 4 would each receive award payments of $ ““"“" , and Claimant 2 would receive
an award payment of $ ““"""'’ , fora total award of $§ ““**"

The recommendation of the CRS with respect to Claimant 1, Claimant 2, Claimant 3, and
Claimant 4 is adopted. We find that the record demonstrates that Claimant 1, Claimant 2,
Claimant 3, and Claimant 4 voluntarily provided original information to the Commission that led
to the successful enforcement of the Covered Action pursuant to Section 23(b)(1) of the
Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA” or “Act”). 7 U.S.C. § 26(b)(1) (2012). The information
Claimant 1, Claimant 2, Claimant 3, and Claimant 4 provided jointly by these claimants was
sufficiently specific, credible, and timely to cause the Commission to open an investigation. The
Commission then brought a successful covered action based in part on conduct that was the
subject of the original information provided by these four claimants. In addition to providing
information that led to the opening of the Commission’s investigations, Claimant 1, Claimant 2,
Claimant 3, and Claimant 4 each provided significant, ongoing assistance in connection with the
primary investigation which merits increased awards for these four claimants. According to
Commission staff, Claimant 1, Claimant 2, Claimant 3, and Claimant 4, through separate
interviews, each provided crucial information that formed the core of the enforcement actions
that the CFTC brought and settled against the defendants in the primary investigation. Claimant
2 will receive a slightly higher award because Claimant 2 eee

We also find that Claimant 1, Claimant 2, Claimant 3, and Claimant 4’s information led
to the successful resolution of the Related Action brought by the — because the actions were
based, at least in part, on the original information that Claimant 1, Claimant 2, Claimant 3, and
Claimant 4 voluntarily submitted to the Commission, and led to the successful resolution of the
Commission action. See 7 U.S.C. § 26(a)(5); 17 C.F.R. § 165.11.

In addition, the Preliminary Determination recommended that the award applications
submitted by Claimant 5 be denied. The Preliminary Determination found that the information
provided by Claimant 5 was not useful to the Commission’s investigation and, therefore, did not
lead to the successful enforcement of the Covered Action. Claimant 5 failed to submit a request
for reconsideration of the Preliminary Determination; therefore, the Preliminary Determination
denying his/her claim for award has become the Final Order of the Commission. 17 C.F.R.

§ 165.7(h) (2018).

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that Claimant 1, Claimant 3, and Claimant 4 each
receive whistleblower awards of ; %, and that Claimant 2 receive ° %, of the monetary sanctions
collected in the Covered Action and in the Related Action.

 
By the Commission.

Dated: May 1, 2020

 

 

Redacted

- PUBLIC VERSION

Jihot- didn.
Robert Sidman

Deputy Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
1155 21" Street, N.W.

Washington, DC 20581

 

 
