FILED

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

 

- FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AUG 2 3 2007
, : NANCY MAYER WHITTINGTON, CLERK
| _- ) U.S. DISTRICT COURT
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE )-
COMMISSION, )
100 F. Street, NE )
Washington, D.C. 20549-6030 )
). Case: 1:07-cv-01505
Plaintiff, ) Assigned To : Kollar-Kotelly, Colleen
) Assign. Date : 8/23/2007
v. ) Description: GENERAL CIVIL
)
_ TEXTRON INC. )
40 Westminster Street )
Providence, RI 02903 )
)
Defendant. )
)

 

COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, U.S..Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), alleges

that: | . - |
SUMMARY

1. From approximately 2001 through 2003, Textron Inc. (“Textron”) violated
the books and records and internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act (the “FCPA”) when two of its French subsidiaries authorized and made
approximately $650,539 in kickback payments in connection with its sale of
humanitarian goods to Iraq under the United Nations (“U.N.”’) Oil for Food Program.
Textron’s French subsidiaries authorized and paid kickbacks to Iraq in the form of “after-
sales service fees” on sales of its products to Iraq. Textron knew or was reckless in not

knowing that kickbacks were paid in connection with those transactions. Textron knew
that such payments were prohibited by the Oil for Food Program and U.S. and
international trade sanctions on Iraq.

2. The Oil for Food Program provided humanitarian relief to the Iraqi
population during the time that Iraq was subject to international trade sanctions. The
program required that Iraq could purchase necessary humanitarian goods and related
services through a U.N. escrow account. However, the kickbacks paid in connection with
Textron’s subsidiaries’ sale of goods to Iraq bypassed the escrow account and were
- instead paid by third parties to Iraqi-controlled accounts at banks in countries such as
‘Lebanon.

3. Textron’s subsidiaries also made illicit payments in violation of the books
and records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA in certain other countries during
the 2001 to 2005 time period. These payments totaled approximately $1 14,995.

4. In paying “after-sales service fees” to Iraq outside of the confines of the
U.N. program and in making payments in certain other countries that were violative of |
the FCPA, Textron failed to accurately record in its books and records the kickbacks that
were authorized for payment to Iraq and the illicit payments made in certain other
‘countries. Textron also failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting
controls to detect and prevent such illicit payments..

5. As a result of this conduct, Textron violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and

13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C.

88 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)].
JURISDICTION
6. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 USC. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. T extron, directly or
indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the
- mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection with the
| transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.
7. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[5 U.S.C. § 78aa] because Textron does business i in this judicial district and certain acts
‘or transactions constituting the violations by Textron occurred in this district.
DEFENDANT | |
8.. Textron is a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in Providence,
Rhode Island. Textron is a global, multi-industry company that operates in four business
‘segments. Its Industrial Segment is comprised of numerous subsidiaries, including
several under the name “David Brown.” Two of the David Brown subsidiaries sold
goods to Iraq under the Oil for F ood Program. Textron’s common stock is registered
-with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) [15 U.S.C. § 781(b)} of the Exchange Act
and is traded.on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TXT.”
| | RELEVANT ENTITIES — |
9. Union Pump S.A.S., formerly known as David Brown Guinard Pumps
S.A.S. (“DB Guinard Pumps”), acquired by Textron in December 1999, is a wholly-
owned fifth-tier French subsidiary of Textron that is part of the company’s Industrial

Segment. DB Guinard Pumps manufactures industrial pumps for the oil, gas and

petrochemical industries. DB Guinard Pumps is located in Annecy, France.
10. David Brown Transmissions France S.A. (“DB Transmissions France”),
acquired by Textron in November 1998, is a wholly-owned fifth-tier French subsidiary of
Textron that is part of the company’s Industrial Segment. DB Transmissions France
designed and manufactured industrial gears, transmissions and other items. DB
Transmissions F rance was located in Chassieu, France.

I. The United Nations Oil for Food Program
11. On August 2, 1990, the government of Iraq, under Saddam Hussein, |
invaded Kuwait. Four days later the United Nations Security Council voted to enact U.N.
Resolution 661, which prohibited member states from trading in any Iraqi commodities
or products. The United Nations continued to enforce these sanctions until 2003. |

12. - On April 14, 1995, the United Nations Security Council adopted
Resolution 986, which authorized the Government of Iraq to sell oil on the condition that
the proceeds of all of its oil sales be deposited in a bank account monitored by the United
Nations and used only to purchase designated humanitarian goods for the benefit of the
Iraqi people. In May 1996, the Government of Iraq entered into a written Memorandum

| of Understanding to implement Resolution 986.
13. ) The United Nations Office of Iraq Program, Oil for Food (the “Oil for
‘Food Program” or “Program’’) was subsequently established to administer Iraq’s sale of
oil and purchase of humanitarian goods by Iraq. A special bank account was established
at a bank in New York (the “UN Escrow Account”) to handle the transactions. The
United Nations’ economic sanctions on Iraq remained in place for all trade and

transactions not authorized by the Oil for Food Program.
14. Starting in the middle of 2000, the Iraqi government made a concerted _
effort to subvert the Program by demanding secret kickbacks from its humanitarian goods
suppliers. Although contracts entered into pursuant to the Program were subject to. UN
review and approval, the Program gave Iraq discretion to select the companies from
which it purchased goods. A humanitarian supplier would submit a bid for the sale of its
goods. After the Iraqi ministry would accept the bid, the ministry would inform the
supplier of the requirement that the supplier make a secret payment in the form of an
“After-Sales Service Fee” (AS SF”) to Iraq in order to win the contract. The Iraqi

“ministry would also inform the supplier that the ASSF would have to be paid prior to the
| goods entering into the country, or the goods would be stopped at the border until the
ASSF payment was paid.

15. Initially, when this scheme first began, suppliers met with the Iraqi
ministries in person and signed a side agreement acknowledging that the supplier would
make the illicit payment.’ By October 2000, this fee was usually ten percent of the total
contract value. Later in the scheme, everyone understood that the ten percent would have
to be paid. Thus, side agreements. were no longer needed -- the supplier would simply

_. increase its original contract bid by ten percent.

16. The supplier would then submit its contract with the inflated contract price
to the UN for approval, and not disclose the ten percent illicit payment, which was in
violation of ‘the Program rules. The supplier would pay the ASSF to Iraq prior to
shipping its goods. Afterwards, the UN Escrow Account would pay the supplier the

inflated contract price for the goods, thus, unknowingly reimbursing the supplier for the

 

' The side agreement was not provided to the UN when the Oil for Food contract was submitted and
approved. This was in violation of the Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions against Iraq.
ten percent that the supplier had already provided to Iraq. Asa result of this conduct, the
UN Escrow Account lost the benefit of more than $1 billion.

17. After the United States invaded Iraq in March 2003, at the request of the
provisional government, the UN ceased Iraq’s ASSF scheme. The UN required that all
pending contracts that had been inflated by ten percent be amended to reflect the true
/ contract value of the goods.

II.. Textron Subsidiaries Make Hlicit Payments to Iraq

18. The companies in Textron’s Industrial Segment design and manufacture
products such as industrial gears, mechanical transmission systems, industrial pumps, and
valves. Two of Textron’s French subsidiaries utilized consultants in the Middle East to
facilitate sales of industrial pumps and gears to Iraq under the Oil for Food Program.
Textron subsidiaries DB Guinard Pumps and DB Transmissions France made illicit
ASSF payments through these consultants. Textron’s profits from contracts in which
ASSF payments were made were $1,936,926.

A DB Guinard Pumps Authorizes Payment of Approximately $83,000 in
Illicit ASSF Payments

19. During the Program, DB Guinard Pumps conducted business in Iraq with
the help of a Lebanese consulting firm (“Consultant A”). Despite company policy that all
such non-U.S. intermediary agreements be reduced to writing, DB Guinard Pumps did
not enter into a written contract with Consultant A.

20. With the approval of DB Guinard Pumps’ Sales Manager for the Middle
| East (DB Sales Manager”), Consultant A negotiated and signed three sales contracts
with Iraq’s Ministry of Oil for the sale of industrial pumps. The General Manager of

Consultant A signed the sales contracts as “Commercial Manager” of DB Guinard
Pumps. In connection with these contracts, DB Guinard Pumps agreed to make ASSF
payments amounting to ten percent of the contract price. The sales contracts, containing
prices inflated by ten percent to cover the cost of the illicit ASSF payments, were
submitted to the UN for processing and approval. The contracts did not disclose that the
cost of the illicit ASSF payments were included in the inflated contract price. With the
approval and knowledge of the DB Sales Manager, Consultant A then entered into
separate written side agreements for each sale with the Iraqi ministry. ‘Pursuant to these
side agreements, Consultant A agreed to pay the illicit ASSF on behalf of DB Guinard
“Pumps prior to receipt of the goods at Iraq’s border. Consultant A then invoiced DB
Guinard Pumps for “consultation fees,” including the amount of the ASSF payments, and |
passed the funds along to Iraq. DB Guinard Pumps was later reimbursed for the AS SF |
payments when it received payment from the UN for the inflated sales contract.

21. In connection with two of the sales contracts, DB Guinard Pumps paid
more thari $48,000 in illicit ASSF payments to Iraq’s Ministry of Oil through the
consultant. DB Guinard Pumps authorized, but did not pay, an additional $35,000 in
illicit ASSF payments in connection with the third sales contract.”

22. Copies of DB Guinard Pumps internal forms show French management .
approval of ASSF payments on two of the DB Guinard Pumps transactions. Each form,
known as a “Bon de Commission,” was generated by DB Guinard Pumps’ Finance.
Department and signed by the Sales and Finance Directors in Annecy. The Bon de

Commission documents request authorization to pay the amount of the ASSF to the

consultant. The documents contain the term “side agreement” and show that Consultant

 

2 Because the sale was not completed and the ASSF was not paid by the time of the U.S. invasion of
Iraq in March 2003, the UN required that DB Guinard Pumps amend the contract, lowering its price to
remove the ASSF in order to process the contract.
A was to receive fifty percent of the ASSF amount at the time a letter of credit on the UN
contract was opened by the UN?s bank and the remainder two weeks before delivery of
the goods to Iraq: The payment of the AS SFs were described as consultation fees and
recorded as commission payments to Consultant A in DB Guinard Pumps’ books and
records.
| 23. During one shipment to Iraq, the delivery of goods was held up at the Iraqi

border due to non-payment of the ASSF. Upon learning from the shipper of the need for _
proof of the payment of ASSF, an employee at DB Guinard Pumps obtained such proof
‘from Consultant Aso that the goods could be unloaded at the border. Consultant A
produced to DB Guinard Pumps bank records showing that, on June 17, 2002, Consultant
A transferred $6,160.53 in ASSF payments into a Lebanese bank account in the name of
an Iraqi individual for the benefit of the Iraqi ministry.

B. DB Transmissions France Authorizes Approximately $567,000 in |

Illicit ASSF Payments Through Its Consultant ~~

24. During the Program, DB ‘Transmissions France conducted business in Iraq
with the help of a Jordanian consulting firm (“Consultant B”). DB Transmissions France .
did not have a written contract with Consultant B as required by company policy. The
Export Sales Manager for the Middle East and responsible for such sales at DB
Transmissions France worked closely with Consultant B to negotiate business with the
Traqi government.

25. In July 2000, after learning from the Iraqi Ministry of Industry of the new
requirement that secret payments be made to do business in Iraq through the use of AS SF

payments, the Export Sales Manager drafted a memo to Consultant B and sent copies to
his supervisors in France. The memo evidences the Export Sales Manager’s
understanding that the ASSF payments were not authorized under the UN Program, as he
noted that DB Transmissions France wishes “to avoid any written agreement [concerning
the ASSF] with client side” and “[i]f written document cannot be avoided, this must
remain highly confidential.” The Export Sales Manager also noted in his memo that he
- discussed this issue with French management and received approval from his superiors to_
include the amount of the ASSF in the inflated contract price submitted to the UN:
26. Between January and July 200 1, the Export Sales Manager signed ten
‘sales contracts with the Iraqi Ministry of Industry and Minerals. In connection with these
sales, DB Transmissions France agreed to make illicit ASSF payments. For each
contract, the Export Sales Manager drafted a “Memorandum of Understanding” that set
forth the obligations of DB Transmissions France and Consultant B with respect to the
ASSF payment. In connection with each of the transactions, Consultant B paid the ASSF |
to the relevant Iraqi Ministry from its own account. Consultant B then invoiced DB
Transmissions France for “After-Sales Service Fees” in the amount of the illicit ASSF
payment.’ These memoranda were signed by the Export Sales Manager on behalf of DB
. Transmissions France and by Consultant B. ‘The payment of the ASSF was recorded as
commissions to Consultant B in the company’s books and records.
27. Prior to the March 2003 invasion of Iraq, DB Transmissions France made

more than $531,000 in illicit ASSF payments through the consultant in connection with

 

3 Consultant B submitted a separate invoice to DB Transmissions France for commissions.
nine Program contracts. DB Transmissions France authorized, but did not pay, an
additional $35,000 in connection with a'tenth sales contract.”

Il. TEXTRON SUBSIDIARIES MAKE OTHER ILLICIT PAYMENTS TO
SECURE BUSINESS

. 28. | Textron found thirty-six transactions involving illicit payments totaling
$1 14,995.20 in countries other than Iraq. Au of these payments were made by or
facilitated by Textron’s “David Brown” subsidiaries in its Industrial Segment. These
illicit payments were similar to the ASSF payments Textron made under the Oil for Food
Program because no bona fide services were actually performed and the payments were
. made to secure contracts. These payments were discovered by Textron during its internal :
investigation into the Oil for Food payments. .

A. DB Guinard Pumps Makes Improper Payments in the United Arab -

Emirates (CUAE” )

29. Between 2002 and 2005, DB Guinard Pumps made twenty-three illicit
payments totaling $20,429.06 to employees of two different oil companies, GASCO and
ZADCO, which are both subsidiaries of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company. In |
connection with DB Guinard Pump’s sales to the UAE, approximately $14,000 was paid

to employees of GASCO, and approximately $6;000 was paid to employees of ZADCO.
The David Brown representative for.the UAE made an additional illicit payment of
$3,000 to an employee of ADCO, which is also a subsidiary of the Abu: Dhabi National
Oil Company. The total illicit payments in the UAE were $23,429.06. Textron’s net

profits from the sales involving these illicit payments were $158,002.

 

4 Because the sale was not completed and the ASSF payment was not made by the time of the U.S.
invasion of Iraq in March 2003, the UN required that DB Transmissions France amend the contract,
lowering its price to remove the ASSF in order to. process the contract.

10
B. DB Guinard Pump’s Makes IHlicit Payments in Bangladesh

30. ' From 2001 to 2005, a representative engaged by DB Guinard Pumps made .
seven payments totaling approximately $16,342.14 to two “friends” employed by a
government-owned fertilizer company in Bangladesh in connection with the sale of spare |
parts. Textron’s net profits from the sales involving the illicit payments were $93,396.

C. ‘David Brown Union Pump’s Representative in Indonesia Makes an
Illicit Payment

31. | David Brown Union Pump engaged an Indonesian representative to sell
-spare parts to Pertamina, an Indonesian government entity. The total contract price for

this transaction was $321,171, with approximately $149,000 allocated for after-sales
services.” Thus, almost half of the contract value was for after-sales services, which was
highly unusual. Under the terms of the agreement, the representative would provide
after-sales services on the goods, the cost of which was included in the price to
Pertamina. In January 2002, the representative was paid $149,822, including a
commission of $17,250 with the remainder allocated for after-sales service fees.

32. The representative paid approximately $10,000 to a procurement official
at Pertamina to help sponsor a golf tournament. There are some receipts concerning the
tournament sponsorship and very little documentation to show what the representative.
actually did with the remainder of the funds allocated for after-sales services. Textron’s

net profits from the sales involving the illicit payments were $52,032.

 

5 There are legitimate after-sales services that may be rendered on a contract, for example,
installation and repair.

11
D. David Brown’s Representative Makes Illicit Payments in Egypt and
India

33. In 2004, David Brown’s representative in Egypt made three illicit
payments totaling approximately $13,354 to.a government customer in connection with
the sale of gears and parts from a David Brown facility in the United Kingdom. The.
payments were disguised as “commissions” on sales of spare parts, and recorded as
commissions. Textron’s net profits from the sales involving the illicit payments were
$25,509.

34. In 2002, David Brown’s representative in India made an illicit payment
totaling approximately $51,870 to a non-government customer to secure business. The
payment was disguised as a “commission,” and recorded as a commission. Textron did
not profit on this transaction.

‘IV. Textron’s Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

35. Textron failed to maintain a system of internal controls sufficient to ensure
that the company’s transactions under the Oil for Food Program and in other countries
were executed in accordance with management’s authorization and to maintain
accountability for the company’s assets. As discussed above, Textron’s subsidiaries |
made numerous illicit payments that contravened the Oil for Food Program, U.S. and
international trade sanctions, and its own internal FCPA and anti-bribery policies. In |
addition, Textron’s subsidiaries made a number of illicit payments in the UAE,
Bangladesh, Indonesia, Egypt, and India that contravened Textron’s internal FCPA and
anti-bribery policies. |

36. DB Guinard Pumps and DB Transmissions France failed to enter into

signed agreements with non-U.S. intermediaries despite Textron requirements that they

12
do so, and management of the David Brown subsidiariés failed to report known
transgressions to higher level managers. Further, although Textron knew of endemic
corruption problems in the Middle East, it appeared to take on faith, without adequate
confirming steps, that its managers and employees were exercising their duties to manage
and comply with compliance and control issues. Textron failed to devise and maintain an
effective system of internal controls to prevent or detect these violations of the FCPA, as
required by Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).
V. Textron’s Failure to Properly Maintain Its Books and Records

: 37. As described above, Textron’s accounting for its Oil for Food transactions
failed properly to record the nature of the company’s subsidiaries’ illicit payments. In
twelve transactions, a portion of the subsidiaries’ sale price for goods to Iraq constituted
ASSF payments in violation of UN regulations and trade sanctions, and also Textron’s
_FCPA and anti-bribery policies. The company’s subsidiaries’ failed to properly designate
those payments, characterizing them instead as commissions to the consultants who
worked on the transactions. |

38.  Textron’s subsidiaries also failed to accurately designate the illicit
payments they made in certain other countries. by characterizing them as commissions
and. consultation fees. Thus, Textron failed to accurately record these payments in its
books, records, and accounts to fairly reflect the transactions.
CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

39. Paragraphs 1 through 38 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

13
40. As described above, Textron, through its officers, agents, consultants,
representatives, and subsidiaries, failed to keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its
assets.

41... By reason of the foregoing, Textron violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the
- Exchiange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]. .

| SECOND CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]

42. Paragraphs 1 through 41 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

43. As described above, with respect to illicit payments made in connection
with Textron’s sales to Iraq and in certain other countries, Textron failed to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable

assurances that: (i) payments were made in accordance with management’s general or
‘specific authorization: and (ii) payments were recorded as necessary to maintain
accountability for its assets. 7

| 44. By reason of the foregoing, Textron violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the
| Exchange Act [15 USC. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].
| | PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment:

A. | Permanently restraining and enjoining Textron from violating Sections

13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)];

14
B. Ordering Textron to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment interest,

_ wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct;

Cc Ordering Textron to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; and

D. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: August-Z%, 2007

Respectfully submitted,’

Cheryl J. $€arWoro (D.C. Bar No. 7221 737
Tracy L. Price
Kelly G. Kilroy

| Attorneys for Plaintiff,

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
-Mail Stop 6030 SPI .

Washington, DC 20549-6030

(202) 551-4403 (Scarboro)

15
