Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 20251 / August 23, 2007
SEC v. Textron Inc., Civil Action No. 07 CV 01505 (D.D.C.) (CKK)

SEC Files Settled Books and Records and Internal Controls Charges
Against Textron Inc. For Improper Payments to Iraq Under the U.N.
Oil for Food Program — Company Agrees to Pay Over $3.5 Million and
to Make Certain Undertakings Regarding its Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act Compliance Program

The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act books and records and internal controls charges against Textron
Inc., a Rhode Island-based industrial equipment company, in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia. The Commission's complaint alleges that
from approximately 2001 through 2003, two of Textron's David Brown French
subsidiaries authorized and made approximately $650,539 in kickback
payments in connection with its sale of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the
U.N. Oil for Food Program. The kickbacks were made in the form of "after-
sales service fees," however no bona fide services were actually rendered.
The Program was intended to provide humanitarian relief for the Iraqi
population, which faced severe hardship under international trade sanctions.
Iraq was allowed to purchase humanitarian goods through a U.N. escrow
account. However, according to the complaint, the kickbacks paid by
Textron's subsidiaries bypassed the escrow account and were instead paid by
third parties to Iraqi-controlled accounts. The contracts submitted to the U.N.
did not disclose that the cost of the illicit payments were included in the
inflated contract price. The Complaint also alleges that Textron's subsidiaries
made illicit payments of $114,995 to secure thirty-six contracts in the United
Arab Emirates, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Egypt, and India from 2001 to 2005.

According to the Commission's Complaint:

Textron subsidiaries David Brown Guinard Pumps S.A.S. and David Brown
Transmissions France S.A. made $1,936,926 in profits on Oil for Food
contracts that involved illicit after-sales service fees ("ASSF"). DB Guinard
Pumps obtained three Oil for Food contracts that were inflated by ten percent
to cover the cost of secret ASSFs that it had agreed to make in undisclosed
side letters with Iraq. Management approved ASSFs of approximately $83,000
to be funneled to Iraq through a Lebanese consultant. When the goods were
held up at the Iraqi border on one contract, the Lebanese consultant provided
DB Guinard Pumps with bank records showing that the ASSF payment was
made on the company's behalf into a Lebanese bank account in the name of
an Iraqi individual for the benefit of the Iraqi ministry. DB Transmissions
France obtained ten Oil for Food contracts that were also inflated by ten
percent to cover the cost of secret ASSFs. DB Transmissions France's Export
Sales Manager noted in an internal memorandum that DB Transmissions
France wishes "to avoid any written agreement [concerning the ASSF] with
client side" and "[i]f written document cannot be avoided, this must remain
highly confidential." He also noted that he discussed this issue with French
management and received approval from his superiors to include the amount
of the ASSF in the inflated contract price submitted to the U.N. Management
approved ASSF payments of approximately $567,000 to be funneled to Iraq
through a Jordanian consultant.

Textron's David Brown subsidiaries entered into thirty-six contracts involving
illicit payments totaling $114,995.20 in countries other than Iraq. The
payments were similar to the ASSF payments made on Oil for Food contracts
because no bona fide services were performed and the payments were made
to secure contracts. In the United Arab Emirates, subsidiaries paid $20,429 to
employees of two government-owned gas companies, GASCO and ZADCO.
$16,342 was paid to two "friends" employed by a Bangladesh government-
owned fertilizer company. In Indonesia, a company representative was paid
$149,000 of a $321,171 contract (more than half the contract value) to
perform after-sales services. Of the $149,000 paid to the representative,
$10,000 went to a procurement official of a government-owned company,
Pertamina, to sponsor a golf tournament with very little documentation to
show what the representative actually did with the remainder. Finally,
$13,354 was paid to a government customer in Egypt, and $51,870 was paid
to a non-government customer in India to secure business.

Textron knew or was reckless in not knowing that illicit payments were paid in
connection with all of these transactions. Textron failed to maintain an
adequate system of internal controls to detect and prevent the payments.
Textron's French subsidiaries both failed to enter into signed agreements with
their consultants despite Textron's requirements that they do so, and
management of the subsidiaries failed to report known transgressions to
higher level managers. Further, although Textron knew of endemic corruption
problems in the Middle East, it appeared to take on faith, without adequate
confirming steps, that its managers and employees were exercising their
duties to manage and comply with compliance issues. Textron's accounting
for its Oil for Food transactions failed properly to record the nature of the
company's payments. In twelve transactions, a portion of the subsidiaries'
sale price for goods to Iraq constituted ASSFs, which were characterized on
the books and records as commissions. The illicit payments made in non-lraq
countries were also incorrectly characterized as commissions and consultation
fees.

Textron, without admitting or denying the allegations in the Commission's
complaint, consented to the entry of a final judgment permanently enjoining it
from future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, ordering it to disgorge $2,284,579 in profits, plus
$450,461.68 in pre-judgment interest, and to pay a civil penalty of $800,000.
Textron is also ordered to comply with certain undertakings regarding its
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance program. Textron will also pay a
$1,150,000 fine pursuant to a non-prosecution agreement with the U.S.
Department of Justice, Fraud Section.

The Commission considered remedial acts promptly undertaken by Textron,
which self-reported, and cooperation afforded the Commission staff in its
continuing investigation. The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the
Department of Justice, Fraud Section and the United Nations Independent
Inquiry Committee.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http. /www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2007/Ir20251.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 08/23/2007
