Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 1 of 16

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

Case No. 18-20312-CR-COOKE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
VS.
FRANK ROBERTO CHATBURN RIPALDA,

Defendant.

 

PLEA AGREEMENT
The United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division,

Fraud Section and Money Laundering & Asset Recovery Section

(collectively, the “Government” or the “United States”), and Frank
Roberto Chatburn Ripalda (hereinafter referred to as the
“defendant”) enter into the following agreement:

1. The defendant agrees to plead guilty to Count 2 of the
superseding indictment in this case, charging him with conspiracy
to commit money laundering in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(h).

2. The defendant is aware that the sentence will be imposed
by the Court after considering the Federal Sentencing Guidelines
and Policy Statements (hereinafter the “Sentencing Guidelines”),
as well as other factors enumerated in Title 18, United States
Code, Section 3553(a). The defendant acknowledges and understands

that the Court will compute an advisory sentence under the
 

 

Ke

 

 

 

 

Li

ranks at
wk TAA

ear]

 

 

 

  

 

 

A

 

a

at
LPL

a
i

 

 

2 te
s2

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
  
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

ae

 

en

 
 

 
 
 

 

XS

+
chk

 

 

tam

:

 

 

 
 
 
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 3 of 16

release of up to five years. In addition to a term of imprisonment
and supervised release, the Court may impose a fine of up to
$500,000, or twice the value of the property involved in the
transactions for which the defendant conspired to launder,
whichever is greater, and the Court may also order forfeiture and
restitution.

4. The defendant further understands and acknowledges that,
in addition to any sentence imposed under paragraph 3 of this
agreement, a special assessment in the amount of $100 per count
will be imposed on the defendant. The defendant agrees that any
special assessment imposed shall be paid at the time of sentencing.
If the defendant is financially unable to pay the special
assessment, the defendant agrees to present evidence to the
Government and the Court at the time of sentencing as to the
reasons for the defendant’s failure to pay.

5. The Government reserves the right to inform the Court and
the probation office of all facts pertinent to the sentencing
process, including all relevant information concerning the
offenses committed, whether charged or not, as well as concerning
the defendant and the defendant’s background. Subject only to the
express terms of any agreed-upon sentencing recommendations
contained in this agreement, the Government further reserves the
right to make any recommendation as to the guality and quantity of

punishment.
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 4 of 16

6. The Government agrees to recommend at sentencing that the
Court reduce by two levels the sentencing guideline level
applicable to the defendant’s offense, pursuant to Section
B3E1l.1(a) of the Sentencing Guidelines, based upon the defendant’s
recognition and affirmative acceptance of personal responsibility.
If at the time of sentencing the defendant’s offense level is
determined to be 16 or greater, the Government will make a motion
requesting an additional one-level decrease pursuant to Section
BE1.1(b) of the Sentencing Guidelines, stating that the defendant
has assisted authorities in the investigation or prosecution of
his own misconduct by timely notifying authorities of his intention
to enter a plea of guilty, thereby permitting the Government to
avoid preparing for trial and permitting the Government and the
Court to allocate their resources efficiently. The Government,
however, will not be reguired to make this motion and this
recommendation if the defendant: (1) fails or refuses to make a
full, accurate, and complete disclosure to the probation office of
the circumstances surrounding the relevant offense conduct; (2) is
found to have misrepresented facts to the Government prior to
entering into this plea agreement; or (3) commits any misconduct
after entering into this plea agreement, including but not limited
to committing a state or federal offense, violating any term of
release, or making false statements or misrepresentations to any

governmental entity or official.
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 5 of 16

7. The Government and the defendant agree that, although
not binding on the probation office or the Court, they will jointly
recommend that the Court make the following findings and
conclusions as to the sentence to be imposed. The parties agree
not to recommend or advocate for any other guideline enhancements
or departures.

a. Base offense level: Pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 2S51.1(a) (1),

 

that the base offense level for purposes of sentencing guideline
calculations for the charged offenses is 12 (see § 2C1.1) plus the
number of offense levels from the table in § 2Bl1.1 corresponding
to the value of the unlawful payments/laundered funds (more than
$1.5 million and less than $3.5 million), adding 16 levels, for a
total base offense level of 28;

b. Offense of conviction: That a two-level increase to the

 

offense level applies under U.S.S.G. § 251.1(b) (2) (B) for a
conviction under Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956;

c. Sophisticated means: That a two-level increase to the

 

offense level applies since the offense involved sophisticated
means pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 251.1 (b) (3); and

d. the defendant has a Criminal History Category of IT.

8. The defendant agrees that he shall cooperate fully with
the Government by: (a) providing truthful and complete information
and testimony, and producing documents, records and other

evidence, when called upon by the Government, whether in
 

 

  

 
 

 

0)

 

 

cytes ead
GOS

 

 

 

4
fas}
148)

GLO

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

yay
rma

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ne
Ls

 

 

 

7
A

 

ama

aye
Ne

mee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oy
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 7 of 16

to Rule 35 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, informing
the Court that the defendant has provided substantial assistance
and recommending that the defendant’s sentence be reduced. The
defendant understands and agrees, however, that nothing in this
agreement requires the Government to file any such motions, and
that the Government’s assessment of the quality and significance
of the defendant’s cooperation shall be binding as it relates to
the appropriateness of the filing or non-filing of a motion to
reduce sentence. In addition, because the defendant agrees that
the Government shall have sole and unreviewable discretion to move
for any sentencing reduction based on his cooperation, the
defendant agrees that he will not seek a variance from the
guideline range under Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553 (a)
because of any cooperation, although the defendant may move for a
variance, if he chooses, because of other grounds, if any, which
do not involve cooperation.

10. The defendant understands and acknowledges that the
Court is under no obligation to grant a motion for reduction of
sentence filed by the Government. In addition, the defendant
further understands and acknowledges that the Court is under no
obligation of any type to reduce the defendant’s sentence because
of the defendant’s cooperation.

ll. In the event that the defendant chooses to seek a

variance from the sentencing guideline range, the defendant
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 8 of 16

further agrees that any such application shall be filed in writing
with the Court and served on the United States no later than the
deadline for submitting objections to the Pre-Sentence
Investigation Report stated in Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure
32(f) (1).

12. The defendant agrees, in an individual and any other
capacity, to forfeit to the United States, voluntarily and
immediately, all rights, title, and interest to any property, real
or personal, involved in the violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 1956(h) or any property traceable to such property.
In addition, the defendant agrees to forfeiture of substitute
property pursuant to 21 U.S.C. § 853(p). The property subject to
forfeiture includes, but is not limited to a forfeiture money
judgment of at least $870,924.20 in United States currency, which
sum represents the value of the property subject to forfeiture.
Forfeiture shall be paid by the time of sentencing.

13. The defendant further agrees that forfeiture is
independent of any assessment, fine, cost, restitution, or penalty
that may be imposed by the Court. The defendant knowingly and
voluntarily agrees to waive all constitutional, legal, and
equitable defenses to the forfeiture, including excessive fines
under the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. In
addition, the defendant agrees to waive: any applicable time

limits for administrative or judicial forfeiture proceedings, the
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 9 of 16

requirements of Fed. R. Crim. P. 32.2 and 43(a}), and any appeal of
the forfeiture.

14. The defendant also agrees to fully and truthfully
disclose the existence, nature and location of all assets in which
the defendant has or had any direct or indirect financial interest
or control, and any assets involved in the offense of conviction.
The defendant also agrees to take all steps requested by the United
States for the recovery and forfeiture of all assets identified by
the United States as subject to forfeiture. This includes, but
1s not limited to, the delivery upon request of all necessary and
appropriate documentation to deliver good and marketable title,
consenting to all orders of forfeiture, and not contesting or
impeding in any way any criminal, civil or administrative
forfeiture proceedings concerning the forfeiture.

15. In furtherance of the collection of a forfeiture money
judgment and/or a restitution judgment, the defendant agrees to
the following:

(a) The defendant agrees to make full and
accurate disclosure of his financial affairs to the Government.
Specifically, within 14 calendar days from a request by the
Government, the defendant shall submit a completed Financial
Disclosure Statement (form provided by the Government), and shall
fully disclose and identify all assets in which the defendant has

any interest and/or over which the defendant exercises control,
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 10 of 16

directly or indirectly, including those held by a spouse, nominee,
or other third party. Upon request by the Government, the
defendant agrees to provide in a timely manner all financial
information requested, including all financial information
provided to the United States Probation Office, and to meet in
person to identify assets which may be used to satisfy a forfeiture
money judgment and/or the restitution judgment.

(b) The defendant agrees to not sell, hide, waste,
encumber, destroy, or otherwise devalue any asset until the
forfeiture money judgment and the restitution judgment are paid in
full without prior approval of the United States. The defendant
shall also identify any transfer of assets valued in excess of
$5,000 since the commencement of the offense conduct to date,
including the identity of the asset, the value of the asset, the
identity of the third party to whom the asset was transferred, and
the current location of the asset.

(c) The defendant agrees to cooperate fully in the
investigation and the identification of assets to be applied toward
forfeiture and/or restitution. The defendant agrees that
providing false or incomplete information about assets, or hiding,
selling, transferring or devaluing assets and/or failing to
cooperate fully in the investigation and identification of assets
may be used as a basis for: (i) separate prosecution, including,

under 18 U.S.C. § 1001; or (11) recommendation of a denial of a

10
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 11 of 16

reduction for acceptance of responsibility pursuant to the United
States Sentencing Guidelines § 3K1.1.

(d) The defendant further agrees to liquidate assets,
or complete any other tasks which may result in immediate payment
of the forfeiture money judgment and/or the restitution judgment
in full, or full payment in the shortest amount of time, as
requested by the United States.

(e) The defendant shall notify, within 30 days, the
Clerk of the Court for the Southern District of Florida and the
Government of: (1) any change of name, residence, or mailing
address, and (ii) any material change in economic circumstances
that affects the ability to pay the forfeiture.

16. The defendant is aware that Title 18, United States
Code, Section 3742 and Title 28, United States Code, Section 1291
afford the defendant the right to appeal the sentence imposed in
this case. Acknowledging this, in exchange for the undertakings
made by the United States in this plea agreement, the defendant
hereby waives all rights conferred by Sections 3742 and 1291 to
appeal any sentence imposed, including any restitution order, or
to appeal the manner in which the sentence was imposed, unless the
sentence exceeds the maximum permitted by statute or is the result
of an upward departure and/or an upward variance from the advisory
guideline range that the Court establishes at sentencing. The

defendant further understands that nothing in this agreement shall

11
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 12 of 16

affect the Government’s right and/or duty to appeal as set forth
in Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742(b) and Title 28,
United States Code, Section 1291. However, if the United States
appeals the defendant’s sentence pursuant to Sections 3742(b) and
1291, the defendant shall be released from the above waiver of
appellate rights. In addition to the foregoing provisions, the
defendant hereby waives all rights to argue on appeal that the
statute to which the defendant is pleading guilty is
unconstitutional and that the admitted conduct does not fall within
the scope of the statute. By signing this agreement, the defendant
acknowledges that the defendant has discussed the appeal waiver
set forth in this agreement with the defendant’s attorney.

7. The defendant is aware that the sentence has not yet
been determined by the Court. The defendant also is aware that
any estimate of the probable sentencing range or sentence that the
defendant may receive, whether that estimate comes from the
defendant’s attorney, the Government, or the probation office, is
a prediction, not a promise, and is not binding on the Government,
the probation office, or the Court. The defendant understands
further that any recommendation that the Government makes to the
Court as to sentencing, whether pursuant to this agreement or
otherwise, is not binding on the Court, and the Court may disregard
the recommendation in its entirety. The defendant understands and

acknowledges, as previously acknowledged in paragraph 2 above,

12
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 13 of 16

that the defendant may not withdraw his plea based upon the Court’s
decision not to accept a sentencing recommendation made by the
defendant, the Government, or a recommendation made jointly by
both the defendant and the Government.

18. The Government and the defendant stipulate to and agree
not to contest the facts in the Factual Proffer, attached hereto
as Exhibit A, and stipulate that such facts, in accordance with
Rule 1l1i(b) (3) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, provide
a sufficient factual basis for the plea of guilty in this case,
The defendant agrees that the facts in the Factual Proffer are
true and correct to the best of the defendant’s knowledge. The
factual basis set forth in the Factual Proffer does not purport to
represent all facts and circumstances relating to the defendant’s
participation in the crime to which he is pleading guilty.
Similarly, the factual basis in the Factual Proffer is not intended
to identify all of his unlawful activity or all of the knowledge
the defendant might have of the unlawful activity of other
individuals.

19. The defendant agrees that, effective as of the date the
defendant signs this Plea Agreement, and notwithstanding any other
subsequent event, including but not limited to the defendant’s
failure to plead guilty, the court’s refusal to accept the
defendant’s guilty plea, or the defendant’s withdrawal (or

attempted withdrawal) of his guilty plea, the factual basis in the

13
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 14 of 16

Factual Proffer set forth in connection with this Plea Agreement
shall be admissible against the defendant in any criminal case
involving the Fraud Section or the Money Laundering and Asset
Recovery Section and the defendant, as: (a) substantive evidence
offered by the government in its case-in-chief and rebuttal cases;
(bob) impeachment evidence offered by the government on cross-
examination; and (c) evidence at any sentencing hearing or other
hearing. In addition, the defendant also agrees not to assert any
claim under the United States Constitution, any statute, the
Federal Rules of Evidence (including Rule 410 of the Federal Rules
of Evidence), the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure (including
Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure), or the United
States Sentencing Guidelines that the factual basis in the Factual
Proffer set forth in connection with this Plea Agreement should be
suppressed or is otherwise inadmissible as evidence (in any form).

20. The defendant recognizes that pleading guilty may have
consequences with respect to the defendant’s immigration status if
the defendant is not a citizen of the United States or if the
defendant is a naturalized citizen of the United States. Under
federal law, a broad range of crimes are removable offenses,
including the offense to which the defendant is pleading guilty.
Indeed, because the defendant is pleading guilty to a conspiracy
to launder money, removal is presumptively mandatory. Removal and

other immigration consequences are the subject of a separate

14
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 15 of 16

proceeding, however, and defendant understands that no. one,
including the defendant’s attorney or the Court, can predict to a
certainty the effect of the defendant’s conviction on the
defendant’s immigration status. The defendant nevertheless
affirms that the defendant wants to plead guilty regardless of any
immigration consequences that the defendant’s plea may entail,
even if the consequence is the defendant’s automatic removal from
the United States.

21. This is the entire agreement and understanding between
the United States and the defendant. There are no other

agreements, promises, representations, or understandings.

Date: |[O] \y \A ROBERT ZINK
CHIEF, FRAUD SECTION
Department of Justice, Criminal
Division

IAN YOUKG —
DAVID FUHR
KATHERINE RAUT
TRIAL ATTORNEYS

Date: fofu HG DEBORAH L. CONNOR

CHIEF, MONEY LAUNDERING & ASSET
RECOVERY SECTION

Department of Justice, Criminal
Division

By: Lacdidll tharde-——

15
Case 1:18-cr-20312-MGC Document 212 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/11/2019 Page 16 of 16

Date:

Date:

lo-f) + |

4

2 -[|-

RANDALL WARDEN
MARY ANN MCCARTHY
TRIAL ATTORNEYS

WAZ2_

HOWA RD SREBNICK, ESQ.
ee PERCZEK, ESO.
COUNSEL FOR DEFENDANT CHATBURN

tt.

FRANK ROBERTO CHATBURN RIPALDA
DEFENDANT

16
