#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday, October 11, 2019

Miami-Based Financial Advisor Pleads Guilty for Conspiring to Launder Money Relating To FCPA
and Ecuadorian Bribery Law Violations

A financial advisor based in Miami, Florida, pleaded guilty today to a money laundering conspiracy for his role in using the U.S. financial system
to launder money to promote violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Ecuadorian bribery law violations and to conceal and
disguise the true nature of those illegal bribe payments. Specifically, this conspiracy related to a scheme to pay bribes to officials of Ecuador’s
state-owned and state-controlled oil company, Empresa Publica de Hidrocarburos del Ecuador (PetroEcuador).

Assistant Attorney General Brian A. Benczkowski of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Kelly Jackson of the IRS-
Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-Cl) Washington, D.C. office, Special Agent in Charge Raymond Villanueva of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Washington, D.C., office, and Special Agent in Charge George Piro of the FBI’s Miami Field
Office made the announcement.

Frank Roberto Chatburn Ripalda (Chatburn), 42, a dual U.S. and Ecuadorian citizen, pleaded guilty in federal district court in Miami before the
Honorable Marcia G. Cooke to one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering, which carries a 20-year statutory maximum sentence.
Chatburn is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Cooke on Dec. 18.

According to his admissions at the plea hearing, Chatburn conspired with an oil services contractor to pay nearly $3 million in bribes to
Ecuadorian government officials in an effort to obtain and retain contracts with PetroEcuador. As a financial advisor to the contractor, Chatburn
agreed to make bribe payments for the benefit of several then-PetroEcuador officials through the use of shell companies and bank accounts in
the United States, Panama, the Cayman Islands, Curacao and Switzerland. To conceal the bribe payments and to promote the scheme,
Chatburn established Panamanian shell companies with Swiss bank accounts on behalf of two then-PetroEcuador officials.

Chatburn further admitted that he conspired with another Ecuadorian government official to conceal bribe payments intended for the official
from Odebrecht S.A., the Brazilian construction conglomerate. Chatburn facilitated hiding these bribe payments by conducting the transactions
through several shell companies and bank accounts in multiple jurisdictions, including in the United States. Odebrecht S.A. pleaded guilty on
Dec. 21, 2016, in the Eastern District of New York to conspiring to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA in connection with a broader
scheme to pay nearly $800 million in bribes to public officials in twelve countries, including Angola, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, Mozambique, Panama, Peru and Venezuela.

To date, 10 individuals, including former Ecuadorian government officials, oil services contractors and financial advisors, have pleaded guilty to
criminal charges in U.S. courts for their involvement in the PetroEcuador bribery and money laundering schemes.

This case was investigated by HSI and IRS-Cl, jointly under the auspices of the Global Illicit Financial Team, and by the FBI’s International
Corruption Squad in Miami. Deputy Chief Brian Young, Assistant Chiefs David Fuhr and Lorinda Laryea, Trial Attorney Katherine Raut of the
Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, and Trial Attorneys Randall Warden and Mary Ann McCarthy of the Criminal Division’s Money Laundering and
Asset Recovery Section (MLARS) are prosecuting the case.

The U.S. Marshals Service and the Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs have provided significant assistance by obtaining evidence in
this case, as have public authorities in, among other countries, Ecuador, Panama and the Cayman Islands.

MLARS’s Bank Integrity Unit investigates and prosecutes banks and other financial institutions, including their officers, managers and
employees, whose actions threaten the integrity of the individual institution or the wider financial system.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA

enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

To learn more about the government’s FCPA enforcement efforts, go to www. justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud
Foreign Corruption

 

Component(s):
Criminal Division
Criminal - Criminal Fraud Section
riminal - Money Laundering and Asset Recover tion

Press Release Number:
19-1,096

Updated October 11, 2019
