cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Seventh Mortgage Company
to Address Deceptive Loan Advertisements Sent to Servicemembers and
Veterans

SEP 02, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against Accelerate Mortgage, LLC (Accelerate), a Delaware limited liability
corporation that is licensed as a mortgage broker and lender in about 31 states. Accelerate
offers and provides mortgage loans guaranteed by the United States Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA). Accelerate’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed loans is
through direct-mail advertisements sent primarily to United States military servicemembers
and veterans. The Bureau found that Accelerate sent consumers mailers for VA-guaranteed
mortgages that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements or that lacked
required disclosures, in violation of the Consumer Financial Protection Act’s (CFPA)
prohibition against deceptive acts and practices, the Mortgage Acts and Practices -
Advertising Rule (MAP Rule), and Regulation Z. The consent order requires Accelerate to
pay a civil money penalty and imposes requirements to prevent future violations.

Today’s action is the seventh case stemming from a Bureau sweep of investigations of
multiple mortgage companies that use deceptive mailers to advertise VA-guaranteed
mortgages. The Bureau commenced this sweep in response to concerns about potentially
unlawful advertising in the market that the VA identified. This ongoing sweep of
investigations reflects the Bureau’s commitment to enforcing the laws that ensure the
financial marketplace is fair and accurate for all consumers, including servicemembers,
veterans, and surviving spouses whom VA-guaranteed mortgages are designed to benefit.

The Bureau found that Accelerate disseminated advertisements that contained false,
misleading, and inaccurate statements or that failed to include required disclosures. For
example, Accelerate advertisements misrepresented the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage loan by stating credit terms that the company was not actually prepared to offer
to the consumer, including misrepresenting the interest rate or payment amount applicable
to the advertised mortgage and the nature or amount of cash available to the consumer in
connection with the advertised mortgage. Accelerate also made misrepresentations about
the existence or amount of fees or costs to the consumer in connection with the advertised
mortgage. Accelerate advertisements created the false impression that Accelerate was
affiliated with the government by using words, phrases, images, or designs that are
associated with the VA, Internal Revenue Service, or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Accelerate advertisements also falsely represented that the consumer's access to mortgage-
refinance benefits through VA-guaranteed loans was time-limited. The Bureau also found
that Accelerate advertisements failed to properly disclose, when required by Regulation Z,
credit terms for the advertised mortgage, such as the annual percentage rate of the
advertised mortgage or the consumer's repayment obligations over the full term of the
loan.

The consent order against Accelerate requires Accelerate to pay a civil penalty of $225,000.
The consent order also imposes injunctive relief to prevent future violations, including
requiring Accelerate to bolster its compliance functions by designating an advertising
compliance official who must review its mortgage advertisements for compliance with
mortgage advertising laws prior to their use; prohibiting misrepresentations similar to those
identified by the Bureau; and requiring Accelerate to comply with certain enhanced
disclosure requirements to prevent future misrepresentations.

The consent order against Accelerate can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_accelerate-mortgage-Ilc_consent-

 

der_2020-09.pdf)

tHE
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

li

An official website of the
United States government
