 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION Proceedings Clerk

\ 11:23 am, Jun 02, 2017)

 

 

 

 

In the Matter of:
17-14

David Liew, CFTC Docket No.:

 

Respondent.

Seema’ Se” ee eee” nee See” Sn” ee”

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
David Liew (“Liew” or “Respondent’’) has violated the Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act” or
‘“CEA”) and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”). Therefore, the Commission deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein and to
determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

I.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer’’) that the Commission has determined to accept.
Respondent admits the facts set forth below, acknowledges that his conduct violated the Act and
Regulations, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, and consents to the entry and acknowledges service of this Order Instituting
Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making
Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”).

IIL.
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

From at least December 2009 through February 2012 (“Relevant Period”), Liew, acting
individually and in coordination with other traders on the precious metals trading desk at a large
financial institution (“Financial Institution 1”), engaged in a scheme to manipulate the market
price of gold and silver futures contracts by utilizing manual spoofing techniques designed to
cause price movements in the market that Liew could exploit through his trading.

On numerous occasions, Liew, both individually and in coordination with other traders
on the precious metals trading desk of Financial Institution 1, placed orders to buy or sell gold or
silver futures contracts that he did not intend to execute at the time the orders were placed
(“spoof orders”). On those occasions, Liew intended to induce other market participants into
buying and selling gold or silver futures contracts. In engaging in the unlawful spoofing
conduct, Liew also intended to manipulate and, on occasion, succeeded in manipulating the price
of gold and silver futures contracts. Liew, individually and in coordination with other precious
metals traders, sought to and at times did benefit from the artificial prices by executing buy or
sell orders at artificial prices.

Separately, on certain occasions, Liew placed orders and executed trades with the intent
of manipulating the market price of gold and silver futures contracts for the purpose of triggering
customers’ stop-loss orders.’ Liew coordinated this trading with another precious metals trader
(“Trader A”) at another large financial institution (‘Financial Institution 2”). The intent of
triggering the customer stop-loss orders was to allow the traders to buy precious metals futures
contracts at artificially low prices or sell precious metals futures contracts at artificially high
prices.

In accepting the Offer of Settlement, the Commission recognizes Liew’s cooperation
during the Division of Enforcement’s (“Division”) investigation of this matter, including his
entry into a formal Cooperation Agreement (“Cooperation Agreement”) with the Division, his
provision of substantial assistance to the investigation and his undertaking to continue to
cooperate with the Commission, the Division and any other governmental agency in connection
with any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding relating to the subject matter of
this Order.

B. RESPONDENT

David Liew was employed as a junior trader on the precious metals desk in a foreign
office of Financial Institution 1 during the Relevant Period. Liew has never been registered with
the Commission in any capacity.

C. FACTS

During the Relevant Period, Liew worked on the precious metals trading desk, which,
among other things, engaged in market making and proprietary trading in precious metals spot
and futures markets. As part of Liew’s duties, he placed orders and entered into transactions for
gold and silver futures contracts traded on the Commodity Exchange, Inc. (“COMEX”), a futures

 

' A stop-loss order, or stop order, is an order that becomes a market order when a particular price level is
reached. A sell stop is placed below the market; a buy stop is placed above the market.

2
exchange and designated contract market which is owned and operated by CME Group, Inc.
(“CME”).

Liew’s trading practices included placing, or coordinating with other precious metals
traders at Financial Institution 1 to place, hundreds of bids or offers with the intent to cancel
before execution (i.e., spoofing orders). In a March 29, 2011 chat with Trader A at Financial
Institution 2, Liew explained his spoofing strategy: “basically i sold out... by just having fake
bids... [in] the futures ... i just spam bids below ... to clear my offer.” Generally, Liew’s spoof
orders were placed in the futures market after another bid or offer was placed on the opposite
side of the same market. Liew placed his spoof orders with the intent to create the false
appearance that the market interest in buying or selling was greater than the actual market
interest. Liew placed such spoof orders with the intent to induce other market participants to fill
Liew’s resting orders on the opposite side of the market from his spoof orders. In engaging in
the spoofing conduct, Liew also intended to manipulate, and at times succeeded in manipulating
the price of the relevant futures contract. Thereafter, Respondent cancelled the spoof orders after
the resting orders were filled or the spoof orders were at too great a risk of being executed.

As noted above, in addition to executing the spoofing strategy individually, at times,
Liew coordinated with one or more traders on the precious metals trading desk of Financial
Institution 1 to implement his spoofing strategy.

Stop-Loss Manipulation

During the Relevant Period, on occasion, Liew attempted to manipulate, and at times,
succeeded in manipulating the gold and silver futures market prices to trigger customer stop-loss
orders in order to obtain a profit. Liew coordinated this trading with Trader A at Financial
Institution 2.

On certain occasions, Liew would communicate with Trader A at Financial Institution 2
to determine the level in the market that stop-loss orders were resting, and would coordinate
trading for the purpose of triggering stop-loss orders. Liew engaged in this conduct intending to
manipulate the prices of the gold and silver futures contracts. Liew executed trades with the
understanding that he, together with Trader A, had the ability to affect or influence prices. In
certain instances, Liew and Trader A succeeded in manipulating the prices of the gold and silver
futures contracts.

For example, on January 7, 2011, Liew asked Trader A at Financial Institution 2, via a
chat, about the level in the market at which customer stop loss orders were resting. Liew told the
other trader, “i can hunt with u.” A few minutes later, the other trader asked Liew “yo can u help
me push silver down?” Liew agreed to execute trades to push the price of COMEX silver futures
market down to trigger the resting stop loss orders, and did so by entering orders to sell with the
intent to manipulate prices. When the market reached the stop level that they were seeking, Liew
told Trader A “there u go.” Liew then bought back the silver contracts, eliminating his exposure
to risk from further price movements in the silver futures market and generating a profit.
In another example, on March 29, 2011, Trader A asked Liew for assistance in the gold
futures market, asking Liew to “push it up” because Trader A “need[ed] a print.” Liew bought
gold futures contracts with the intent to push prices up as requested. Immediately after Trader A
told Liew that he “got it” [1.e., the print], Liew then sold back the gold futures contracts,
eliminating his exposure to risk from further price movements in the gold futures market and
generating a profit.

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Liew Manipulated and Attempted to Manipulate the Price of Gold and Silver
Futures Contracts in Violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act for the
Period Prior to August 15, 2011, and Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 6(d) and 9{a)(2) of the
Act and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2 for the Period On or After August 15, 2011

Together, Sections 6(c),” 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act prohibit acts of manipulation and
attempted manipulation. 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006). Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes
it unlawful for “[a]ny person to manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any commodity
in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity.”
7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2006). For conduct prior to August 15, 2011, Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Act authorize the Commission to serve a complaint and provide for the imposition of, among
other things, civil monetary penalties and cease and desist orders 1f the Commission “has reason
to believe that any person... has manipulated or attempted to manipulate the market price of
any commodity, in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any
registered entity, ... or otherwise is violating or has violated any of the provisions of [the] Act.”
7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b (2006).

For conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011, the Commission is authorized to
serve a complaint and impose penalties and orders with regard to manipulation and attempted
manipulation in violation of the broader amended provisions of Sections 6(c)(1) and 6(c)(3) of
the Act and the Regulations implementing those provisions, See Sections 6(c)(4)(A) and 6(d) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(4)(A), 13b (2012). Sections 6(c)(1) of the Act prohibits the use or
attempted use of any manipulative device in connection with any swap or contract of sale of any
commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1) (2012), and
Regulation 180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2016), makes it “unlawful... , directly or indirectly,
in connection with any swap, or contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or
contract for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, to...(1) [uJse...
or attempt to use... any manipulative device.” Section 6(c)(3) of the Act prohibits the
manipulation or attempted manipulation of the price of any commodity in interstate commerce,
7 USS.C. § 9(3) (2012), and Commission Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R. § 180.2 (2016), makes it
“unlawful... directly or indirectly, to manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any
swap, or of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the
rules of any registered entity.”

 

* Section 6(c) was amended effective August 15, 2011.
As described above, Liew manipulated and attempted to manipulate the price of gold and
silver futures contracts by utilizing manual spoofing techniques, in violation of Sections 6(c),
6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006), for conduct occurring prior to
August 15, 2011; and Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1),
9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2016),
for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011.

Furthermore, Liew manipulated and attempted to manipulate the price of gold and silver
futures contracts by engaging in a scheme to trigger customer stop-loss orders, in violation of
Sections 6(c), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006), for conduct
occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1,
180.2 (2016), for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011.

B. Liew Engaged in Spoofing in the Gold and Silver Futures Markets, In Violation of
Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act

Section 4c(a)(5) of the Act makes it unlawful for “[a]ny person to engage in any trading,
practice, or conduct on or subject to the rules of a registered entity that . . . is, is of the character
of, or is commonly known to the trade as, ‘spoofing’ (bidding or offering with the intent to
cancel the bid or offer before execution).” 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012). As described above,
Liew entered, or coordinated with other precious metals traders at Financial Institution 1 to enter,
hundreds of bids or offers on a registered entity with the intent to cancel the bids or offers before
execution, in violation of Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Liew violated the Act and
Regulations, as follows: (i) Liew manipulated and attempted to manipulate prices, in violation of
Sections 6(c), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006), for conduct
occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and in violation of Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 6(d) and 9(a)(2)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17
C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2016), for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011; and (ii) Liew
engaged in spoofing in the gold and silver futures markets in violation of Section 4c(a)(5) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012), for conduct occurring on or after July 16, 2011.
VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT
Liew has submitted an Offer in which he:
A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission to all the matters set forth in this Order
and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based on a
violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Admits to all of the findings made in this Order;
D. Waives:
(1) the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
(2) a hearing;
(3) all post-hearing procedures;
(4) judicial review by any court;

(5) any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

(6) any and all claims that he may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,
5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations,
17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2016), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

(7) any and all claims that he may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-68 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

(8) any claims of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this proceeding or
the entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

E. Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of
the findings contained in this Order to which Liew has consented in the Offer; and

F. Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order
that:

(1) makes findings by the Commission that: (1) Liew manipulated and attempted to
manipulate prices in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7

6
U.S.C. § 9, 13b, 13(a)(2), for conduct occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and in
violation of Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§
9(1), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§
180.1, 180.2 (2016), for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011; and that
(ii) Liew spoofed the gold and silver futures markets in violation of Section
4c(a)(5) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012), for conduct occurring on or
after July 16, 2011;

(2) orders Liew to cease and desist from further violations of the Act and
Regulations, as set forth below;

(3) orders that Liew be permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging
in trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012), and all registered
entities shall refuse him trading privileges during that period; and

(4) orders Liew to comply with the conditions, undertakings, and representations
consented to in the Offer and set forth in Part VII of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.
Vil.
ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
A. Respondent shall cease and desist from, directly or indirectly:

(1) manipulating or attempting to manipulate the price of any futures contract or
commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules
of any registered entity, including any contract market, in violation of Sections
6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2)
(2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2016); and

(2) engaging in any trading practice, or conduct on or subject to the rules of a
registered entity that is, is of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade
as “spoofing” (bidding or offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before
execution), in violation of Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C)
(2012).

B. Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil monetary penalty
at this time based upon his cooperation in a Commission investigation and related
proceedings, pursuant to the terms of the Cooperation Agreement, and his undertaking to
continue to cooperate, as set forth below in Part VII.D.3. If at any time following the
entry of this Order, the Division obtains information indicating that Liew: (i) knowingly
provided materially false or misleading information or materials to the Commission in the
investigation, this proceeding or in a related proceeding; or (ii) violated the terms of his
Cooperation Agreement with the Division—including his commitment to continue to
cooperate—the Division may, at its sole discretion and without prior notice to
Respondent, petition the Commission to re-open this matter and seek an order directing
that Liew pay a civil monetary penalty. Liew may contest by way of defense in any
resulting administrative proceeding whether he knowingly provided materially false and
misleading information or violated the terms of his Cooperation Agreement with the
Division, but may not: (1) contest the findings in this Order; or (2) assert any defense to
liability or remedy, including but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense.

. Respondent is permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in trading on
or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012)), and all registered entities shall refuse him trading
privileges.

. Respondent shall comply with the following conditions and undertakings set forth in the
Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither he nor any of his successors,
assigns, agents or employees under their authority or control shall take any action or
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions
in this Order, or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is
without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect
Respondent’s (1) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions in other
proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.

2. Respondent agrees that he shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. enter into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(vy) (2016)) for Respondent’s
own personal accounts or for any accounts in which Respondent has a direct
or indirect interest;

b. have any commodity interests traded on Respondent’s behalf;

c. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

d. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

e. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)Q9) (2016); and/or

f. act as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R.
§ 3.1(a) (2016)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that

8
term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38) (2012)
registered, required to be registered, or exempted from registration with the
Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R.

§ 4.14(a)(9) (2016).

3. Cooperation with the Commission: Respondent shall continue to cooperate fully and

 

expeditiously with the Commission, including the Division pursuant to the
Cooperation Agreement, and any other governmental agency in this action, and in any
investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to the subject matter of
this action or any current or future Commission investigation related thereto. As part
of such cooperation, Respondent agrees to:

a.

preserve and produce to the Commission in a responsive and prompt
manner, as requested by the Division’s staff, all non-privileged documents,
information, and other materials wherever located, in the possession,
custody, or control of Respondent;

utilize his knowledge and skill to explain transactions, interpret information
and terminology or identify new and productive lines of inquiry;

prepare and appear for interviews and testimony at such times and places as
requested by the Division’s staff;

respond completely and truthfully to all inquiries and interviews, when
requested to do so by the Division’s staff;

identify and authenticate relevant documents, execute affidavits or
declarations, and testify completely and truthfully at depositions, trial, and
other judicial proceedings, when requested to do so by the Division’s staff;

accept service by mail, electronic mail, or facsimile transmission of notices
or subpoenas for documents and/or testimony at depositions, hearings, or
trials;

appoint Respondent’s attorney as agent to receive service of such notices
and subpoenas;

waive the territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local rules in connection with
requests or subpoenas of the Division’s staff; and

serve by hand delivery or by next-day mail all written notices and
correspondence required by or related to this Agreement to the Director of
the Division of Enforcement, United States Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, 1155 21st Street, NW, Three Lafayette Centre, Washington,
DC 20581, unless otherwise directed in writing by the Division’s staff.
4. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full his
cooperation obligations as set forth in the Consent Order and the Cooperation
Agreement, Respondent shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified
mail of any change to his telephone number and mailing address within ten (10)
calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective on this date.

By the Commission

Christopher # Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: June 2, 2017

10
