IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

 

ASHEVILLE DIVISION
CIVIL CASE NO. 1:15-cv-00081-MR-DLH

 

 

U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING

 

 

COMMISSION, Pate y, Lis
Plaintiff, ORDER
GRANTING
vs. PLAINTIFF’S
EX PARTE
OTC INVESTMENTS LLC, FOREX EMERGENCY
CURRENCY TRADING ADVISORS, LLC, MOTION FOR
AND BARRY CG. TAYLOR, RESTRAINING
ORDER
Defendants.

 

 

THIS MATTER is before the Court on the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Ex Parte Emergency Motion for Restraining Order in
Accordance with Section 6(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C.§
13a-1(a) (2012) [Doc. 3].

The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” of
“CFTC") has filed a Complaint for Permanent Injunction and Other Relief and
has moved, pursuant to Section 6c(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (the
“Act’), 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(a) (2012), for an ex parte restraining order enjoining

defendants Barry Taylor (‘Taylor’), OTC Investments LLC (OTC.

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 1 of 11

 

 
Investments”), and Forex Currency Trading Advisors, LLC (“FCT Advisors”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) from destroying, altering, or disposing of, or
refusing to permit authorized representatives of the Commission to inspect
and copy any books or records or other documents, including electronically
stored information ("ESI"), and further enjoining the Defendants from
withdrawing, transferring, removing, dissipating, or disposing of any funds,
assets or other property. Having considered the pleadings, declarations,
exhibits, and memorandum filed in support of the Commission’s motion for a
restraining order, THIS COURT HEREBY FINDS:

1. | This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and over the subject
matter of this action pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1
(2012), and Section 2(c)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2) (2012).

2. This Court is authorized by Section 6c(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §
13a-1(a), to issue a statutory restraining order against the Defendants.

3. Venue lies properly within this District pursuant to Section 6c(e)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 13a-1(e) (2012).

4. It appears to the satisfaction of the Court that the Plaintiff has
presented a prima facie case, and further has shown by competent evidence
that there is a substantial likelihood that the Plaintiff will prevail on the merits

of this matter in showing, that the Defendants have engaged, are engaging,

2

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 2 of 11

 
and are about to engage in certain unlawful conduct, including, but not limited
to: making affirmative material misrepresentations to pool participants
and/or prospective pool participants, misappropriating pool participants’
funds, acting as an unlawfully unregistered commodity pool operator (“CPO”)
or an unlawfully unregistered associated person (“AP”) of a CPO, improperly
commingling pool participants’ funds with personal and other business-
related funds, and engaging in other acts, practices or a course of business
that defrauded pool participants or prospective pool participants, operated
as a fraud or deceit on pool participants, cheated or defrauded or attempted
to cheat or defraud other persons, or willfully deceived or attempted to
deceive other persons in connection with a pooled investment vehicle that is
not an eligible contract participant (“ECP”), as defined by Section 1a(11) of
the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 1a(11) (2012),
in connection with leveraged, margined or financed foreign currency
transactions (“forex”) as described in Section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 2(c)(2)(C)(i) (which are subject to the anti-fraud provisions of Section
Ab(a)(2)(A) and (C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6b(a)(2)(A), (C), pursuant to
Sections 2(c)(2)(C)ii)(l) and 2(c)(2)(C\iv) of the Act, 7 USC. §§
2(c)(2)(C)ii)(1), 2(c)(2)(C)(iv)), in violation of Sections 2(c)(2)(C)(iiI)()(cc),

Ab(a)(2)(A), (C), and 40(1)(A)-(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 2(c)(2)(C)(iii)(1)(cc),

3

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Documentii Filed 04/22/15 Page 3 of 11

 
6b(a)(2)(A), (C) and 60(1)(A)-(B) (2012), and Commission Regulation
5.3(a)(2)(i) and (ii), 17 C.F.R. §5.3(a)(2)(i) and (ii) (2014).

5. It appears to the satisfaction of the Court that there is a
substantial likelihood that the Defendants’ violations of the Act and
Regulations are likely to continue unless they are restrained and enjoined
from committing further violations.

6. It appears to the satisfaction of the Court that there is a
substantial likelihood that the Defendants’ customers may be cheated and
defrauded and immediate and irreparable damage will occur to the Court’s
ability to grant effective final relief in the form of monetary redress due to the
dissipation of customer assets and destruction of books and records unless
the Defendants are immediately restrained and enjoined by order of the
Court. Further, the Court finds that balance of hardships tips in the Plaintiff's
favor, as the potential harm to the public in not granting the requested
restraining order outweighs the potential harm to the Defendants in granting
the requested relief.

7. It further appears to the satisfaction of the Court that there is a
substantial likelihood that absent the entry of this restraining order, the

Defendants are likely to dissipate or transfer assets and destroy business

records.

4

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 4 of 11

 
8. Consequently, the Court CONCLUDES as a matter of law that a
statutory restraining order should issue ex parte in order to preserve the
status quo, protect public customers from loss and damage, and enable the
Commission to fulfill its statutory duties.

DEFINITIONS

For the purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:

9. The term “assets” means any legal or equitable interest in, right
to, or claim to, any real or personal property, whether individually or jointly,
directly or indirectly controlled, and wherever located, including but not
limited to: chattels, goods, instruments, equipment, fixtures, general
intangibles, effects, leaseholds mail or other deliveries, inventory, checks,
notes, accounts (including, but not limited to, bank accounts and accounts at
other financial institutions), credits, receivables, lines of credit, contracts
(including spot, futures, options, or swaps contracts), insurance policies, and
all cash, wherever located, whether in the United States or outside the United
States.

10. The term, “document” is synonymous in meaning and equal in
scope to the usage of the term in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 34(a), and
includes, but is not limited to, all writings or printed matter of any Kind,

including without limitation: records, correspondence, memoranda, notes,

5

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 5 of 11

 
rolodexes, address books, diaries, statistics, e-mail, letters, telegrams,
minutes, contracts, reports, studies, checks, statements, receipts, returns,
summaries, pamphlets, books, prospectuses, interoffice or intra-office
communications, telephone message slips, offers, notations of
conversations, bulletins, drawings, plans, computer printouts, computer input
or output, teletypes, facsimiles, invoices, worksheets, ledger books, books
of accounts, and all drafts, alterations, modifications, changes and
amendments of any of the foregoing. The term “document” also includes
graphs, charts, photographs, phonographic record, audio and video
recordings, computer records, and other data compilations from which
information can be obtained or translated, if necessary, through detection
devices into reasonable usable form. The term “document” also refers to
each and every document in a person’s actual or constructive possession,
including but not limited to: (i) all documents within the custody or control of
any present or former agents, employers, employees, partners, and (il) all
documents which a person has a legal or equitable right to obtain from
another person. A draft or non-identical copy is a separate document within

the meaning of the term. A document also includes the file and folder tabs

associated with each original and copy.

6

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 6 of 11

 
11. “Defendants” refers to OTC Investments LLC, Forex Currency
Trading Advisors LLC and Barry C. Taylor, and any person insofar as he
or she is acting in the capacity of an officer, agent servant, employee, or
attorney of the Defendants and any person who receives actual notice of this
Order by personal service or otherwise insofar as he or she is acting in
concert or participation with the Defendants.

RELIEF GRANTED
I. STATUTORY RESTRAINING ORDER
PROHIBITING THE TRANSFER, REMOVAL,
DISSIPATION AND DISPOSAL OF ASSETS

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Defendants and their agents,
servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and person in active concert or
participation with them, who receive actual notice of this Order by personal
service or otherwise, are immediately restrained and enjoined, except as
otherwise ordered by this Court, from directly or indirectly: transferring,
selling, alienating, liquidating, encumbering, pledging, leasing, loaning,
assigning, concealing, dissipating, converting, withdrawing, or otherwise
disposing of any assets, wherever located, including Defendants’ assets held
outside the United States; provided however, that if either Defendants OTC
Investments, FCT Advisors or Taylor have or control any accounts in which

there are any open trading positions in contracts, agreements, or
7.

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 7 of 11

 
transactions in foreign currency or options relating thereto (“forex”),
Defendants shall forthwith close out or liquidate any and all such open forex
positions. The assets affected by this Order shall include both existing
assets and assets acquired after the effective date of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Defendants are restrained and
enjoined from directly or indirectly opening or causing to be opened any safe
deposit boxes titled in the name of, or subject to, access by the Defendant(s).

il. MAINTENANCE OF AND ACCESS TO BUSINESS RECORDS

Y ORDERED that the Defendants, and their agents,

 

IT IS HEREB
servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and person in active concert or
participation with them, who receive actual notice of this Order by personal
service or otherwise, are restrained from directly or indirectly destroying,
mutilating, erasing, altering, concealing or disposing of, in any manner,
directly or indirectly, any documents that relate to the business practices or
business or personal finances of any Defendant.

li. BOND NOT REQUIRED OF PLAINTIFF
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that as the Plaintiff Commission is an
agency of the United States of America which has made a proper showing
under Section 6c(b), 7 U.S.C. 13a-1(b) (2012), this restraining order is

granted without bond. Accordingly, the Commission need not post a bond.

8

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 8 of 11

 
IV. INSPECTION AND COPYING OF BOOKS AND RECORDS
IT 1S FURTHER ORDERED that representatives of the Commission
are immediately allowed to inspect the books, records, and other documents
of the Defendants and their agents including, but not limited to, paper
documents, electronically stored information (“ESI”), tape recordings, and
computer discs, wherever they may be situated and whether they are in the
possession of the Defendants or others, and to copy said documents, data

and records, either on or off the premises where they may be situated.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Defendants shall, within twenty-
four (24) hours of service of this Order, cause to be prepared and delivered
to the Commission a detailed and complete schedule of all passwords for
any encrypted ESI in the possession of control of the Defendants that relate
to the business practices of any Defendant or the business or personal
finances of any Defendant. The Defendants shall, within twenty-four (24)
hours of service of this Order, cause to be prepared and delivered to the
Commission a detailed and complete schedule of all desk top computers,
laptop computers owned and/or used by them in connection with their
business. The schedules required by this section shall include at a minimum
the make, model and description of each, along with the location, the name

of the person primarily assigned to use the computer, and all passwords

9

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 9 of 11

 
necessary to access and use the software contained on the computer and/or
PDA. The Commission shall be authorized to make an electronic, digital or

hard copy of all of the data contained on the computer(s).
V. SERVICE OF ORDER AND ASSISTANCE OF UNITED
STATES MARSHALS SERVICE OR STATE LAW
ENFORCEMENT

IT 1S FURTHER ORDERED that copies of this Order may be served
by any means permitted by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure upon any
financial institution or other entity or person that may have possession,
custody, or control of any documents or assets of any Defendant or that
may be subject to any provision of this Order.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Peter M. Haas, JonMarc P. Buffa,
Jeremy Christianson, and Patricia Gomersall are specially appointed by the
Court to effect service.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the United States Marshal’s Service
is directed to assist the Commission with service of process, including of the
Complaint, summons, and all other papers in this case, as well as assist the

Commission with taking control and custody of the assets, books, records,

and business premises of the Defendants.

10

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 10 of 11

 
Vi. SERVICE ON THE COMMISSION

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Defendants shall serve all
pleadings, correspondence, notices required by this Order, and other
materials on the Commission by delivering a copy to Peter M. Haas and/or
JonMarc P. Buffa, Division of Enforcement, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, 1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581, and/or by
filing such pleadings or other materials electronically with the Court.

VIL. FORCE AND EFFECT

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Restraining Order shall expire at
9:00 p.m. on Friday, May 1, 2015, unless before that time the Court, for good
cause, extends it for a like period.

IT IS SO ORDERED, at Asheville, North Carolina on the 22 day of

April, 2015, at 12:00 p.m.
Signed: April 22, 2015

   

addin Reidinger
United States District Judge

 

11

Case 1:15-cv-00081-MR *SEALED* Document11 Filed 04/22/15 Page 11 of 11

 

 
