UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 70751 / October 24, 2013

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15587

 

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
Stryker Corporation, EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission’’) deems it appropriate that
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), against Stryker Corporation (“Stryker”
or “Respondent”).

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent consents to the Commission’s
jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings and to the entry of this Order
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange
Act, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
Il.
FACTS

On the basis of this Order and the Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds’ that:

Summary

1. From approximately August 2003 to February 2008 (the “relevant period”),
Stryker made approximately $2.2 million in unlawful payments to various government
employees including public health care professionals (collectively, the “foreign officials”) in
Mexico, Poland, Romania, Argentina, and Greece. Stryker incorrectly described these expenses
in the company’s books and records as legitimate consulting and service contracts, travel
expenses, charitable donations, or commissions, when in fact the payments were improperly
made by Stryker to obtain or retain business. Stryker earned approximately $7.5 million in illicit
profits as a result of these payments.

2. During the relevant period, Stryker incorrectly described unlawful payments to
foreign officials in its accounting books and records in violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act’) and failed to devise and maintain an
adequate system of internal accounting controls in violation of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the
Exchange Act.

Respondent

3. Stryker is a Michigan corporation with its principal executive offices in
Kalamazoo, Michigan. Stryker manufactures and distributes medical devices and products in
more than 100 countries around the world. Its common stock is registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “SYK.” Stryker is an “issuer” within the meaning
of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1.

Background

4. During the relevant period, Stryker sold its medical products around the world. In
certain countries, Stryker sold products through wholly-owned regional subsidiaries and through
third-party dealers and distributors. Stryker’s medical products include implants, surgical
equipment, and neurotechnology devices. In 2008, approximately 36% of Stryker’s over $6.7
billion in total sales occurred outside of the United States. The financial results of all of the
Stryker subsidiaries discussed herein were consolidated into Stryker’s financial statements.

5. Stryker’s foreign subsidiaries were organized in a decentralized, country-based
structure, wherein a manager of a particular country’s operations had primary responsibility for
all business within a given country. During the relevant period, each of Stryker’s foreign
subsidiaries operated pursuant to individual policies and directives implemented by country or
regional management. Stryker had corporate policies addressing anti-corruption, but these

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding

on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2
policies were inadequate and insufficiently implemented on the regional and country level.
Accordingly, Stryker failed to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the company maintained accountability
for its assets and that transactions were executed in accordance with management’s
authorization.

Unlawful Payments in Mexico

6. Between March 2004 and January 2007, Stryker’s wholly-owned subsidiary in
Mexico (“Stryker Mexico”) made three payments totaling more than $76,000 to foreign officials
employed by a Mexican governmental agency (the “Mexican Agency”) responsible for providing
social security for government employees. Stryker made these payments to win bids to sell its
medical products to certain public hospitals in Mexico. Stryker Mexico earned more than $2.1
million in profits as a result of these illicit payments.

7. These payments were made at the direction of Stryker Mexico employees,
including country level management, and paid to the foreign officials through third party agents.

8. For example, in January 2006, Stryker Mexico learned that the Mexican Agency
was threatening to revoke a contract that Stryker Mexico had won to provide knee and hip
products to certain public hospitals unless Stryker Mexico paid an employee of the Mexican
Agency.

9. As a result of the demand by the employee of the Mexican Agency, Stryker
Mexico directed its outside counsel in Mexico (the “Mexican Law Firm”) to make a payment to
the employee, on Stryker Mexico’s behalf, in order for Stryker to keep the winning bid.

10. AtStryker Mexico’s direction, the Mexican Law Firm paid the foreign official
approximately $46,000 on behalf of Stryker Mexico and, as a result of this payment, the Mexican
Agency did not revoke Stryker Mexico’s status as the winning bidder. The Mexican Law Firm
then invoiced Stryker Mexico for $46,000 for purported legal services rendered, even though no
such services were provided. Stryker Mexico recorded these improper payments as legitimate
legal expenses in its books and records.

11. Stryker Mexico earned over $1.1 million in illicit profits on this contract alone.

12. Stryker Mexico made two additional payments through intermediaries during the
relevant period in much the same fashion, with the purpose of retaining or obtaining business
from public hospitals. The additional payments were in excess of $34,000 and earned Stryker
illicit profits of nearly $1 million.

Unlawful Payments in Poland

13. Between August 2003 and November 2006, Stryker’s wholly-owned subsidiary in
Poland (“Stryker Poland”) made 32 improper payments to foreign officials in Poland for the
purpose of obtaining or retaining business at public hospitals. In total, Stryker Poland made
approximately $460,000 in unlawful payments resulting in more than $2.4 million of illicit
profits.
14. These improper payments were recorded in Stryker’s books and records as
legitimate expenses, including reimbursement for business travel, consulting and service contract
payments, and charitable donations.

15. For example, in May 2004, Stryker Poland paid for a foreign official then
employed as the director of a public hospital in Poland, and her husband, to travel to New York
City and Aruba. Although the official purpose of the trip was for the foreign official to attend a
single-day tour of Stryker’s manufacturing and research facility in Mahwah, New Jersey, Stryker
paid for the couple’s six-night stay at a hotel in New York City, attendance at two Broadway
shows, and a five-day trip to Aruba before their return flight to Poland.

16. According to Stryker Poland’s records, expenses for the trip, including airfare,
accommodations, and entertainment, totaled approximately $7,000, all of which Stryker Poland
recorded as legitimate travel expenses.

17. Stryker Poland’s internal documents confirm a quid pro quo arrangement between
Stryker Poland and the foreign official. For example, the form containing the schedule for the
foreign official’s facility tour states that the purpose of the visit was to “strengthen [the public
doctor’s] conviction that Stryker products are the best solution for her hospital,” and notes that
“we won a big tender for [one product] (about $350,000) and in this year they are going to buy
our products for $500,000.”

18. Stryker Poland also made additional improper travel payments, payments under
purported consulting agreements totaling approximately $47,000, and gifts and donations of
nearly $400,000, each of which was made to a state-employed healthcare professional for the
purpose of Stryker Poland’s obtaining or retaining the business of public hospitals.

Unlawful Payments in Romania

19. From at least 2003 through July 2007, Stryker’s wholly-owned subsidiary in
Romania (“Stryker Romania’) made 192 improper payments to foreign officials totaling
approximately $500,000 in order to obtain or retain business with affiliated public hospitals.

20. Stryker Romania recorded these payments as legitimate sponsorships of foreign
officials’ attendance, travel and lodging at conferences, and medical events, when in reality they
were illicit payments made to obtain or retain business.

21. As aresult of these payments, Stryker Romania earned more than $1.7 million in
illicit profits.
22. For example, in April 2004, a Stryker Romania salesperson submitted a form to

sponsor a foreign official’s lodging abroad to attend a conference. The form stated that a
“business benefit[]” from the sponsorship was that, in return, Stryker Romania would receive a
contract for the sale of a particular medical device. In addition, Stryker Romania internally
discussed that the foreign official in question was “waiting to be confirmed as chief physician” at
a public hospital, “thus becoming important” for an upcoming bid for a contract. Stryker
Romania recorded the payment as a legitimate business travel expense even though its own
internal documents demonstrated that the payment was made with the purpose of obtaining
future business.

Unlawful Payments in Argentina

23. Between 2005 and 2008, Stryker’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Argentina
(“Stryker Argentina”) made 392 commission payments, or “honoraria,” to physicians employed
in the public healthcare system in order to obtain or retain business with affiliated public
hospitals.

24. Unlike traditional honorarium payments that are made in exchange for the
provision of a service (such as making a speech), these honoraria were commissions that were
calculated as a percentage of a total sale to a particular hospital and then paid to the public doctor
associated with the sale. Stryker Argentina routinely made these payments by check to doctors
at rates between 20% and 25% of the related sale.

25. In total, Stryker Argentina made more than $966,500 in improper honoraria
payments during the relevant period, causing Stryker Argentina to earn more than $1.04 million
in profits from the public hospitals with which the doctors were associated.

26. Stryker Argentina booked these payments as commission expenses in an account
entitled “Honorarios Medicos,” when in fact they were unlawful payments made to compensate
doctors for purchasing Stryker products.

Unlawful Payments in Greece

27. In 2007, Stryker’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Greece (“Stryker Greece”) made a
sizeable and atypical donation of $197,055 to a public university (the “Greek University”) to
fund a laboratory that was then being established by a foreign official who served as a prominent
professor at the Greek University, and was the director of medical clinics at two public hospitals
affiliated with the Greek University.

28. As aresult of this donation, Stryker Greece earned a total of $183,000 in illicit
profits.

29. The donation was made pursuant to a quid pro quo arrangement with the foreign
official, pursuant to which Stryker Greece understood it would obtain and retain business from
the public hospitals with which the foreign official was affiliated, in exchange for making the
donation to the foreign official’s pet project.

30. In an email from the country manager of Stryker Greece to the regional manager,
the country manager emphasized that she believed the donation to the Greek University was
necessary to secure future sales for Stryker Greece.

31. The country manager wrote: “I think that anything below 30K will leave [the
foreign official] disappointed. He did promise that he would direct his young assistants into
using our trauma and sports medicine products. [The foreign official] is... difficult to get as a
‘friend’ and really tough to have as a disappointed customer.” The regional manager asked,

5
“What do we get for the sponsorship — or is it just a gift?” The country manager confirmed the
quid pro quo, stating, “For the sponsorship we get the Spine business and a promise for more
products in his Department. . .”

32. At a later date, another country manager stated, “I am willing to support what [the
foreign official] is asking for in order to secure the sales he is bringing in.” The regional
manager then approved the request. Soon thereafter, the country manager said of his meeting
with the foreign official: “Things went well (how couldn’t they—I offered him the amount he is
asking for...). ... My impression is that we will start business again.”

33. Stryker Greece made the donation to the Greek University in three installments,
each of which was improperly booked as a legitimate marketing expense in an account entitled
“Donations and Grants.”

IV.
FCPA VIOLATIONS

Books and Records Violations

34. — As detailed above, Stryker’s foreign subsidiaries made over $2.2 million in
unlawful payments to foreign officials that were incorrectly described in the company’s books
and records. Stryker improperly recorded these payments as legitimate consulting and service
contract payments, business travel expenses, charitable donations, or commissions.

35. As a result of the conduct described above, Stryker violated Section 13(b)(2)(A)
of the Exchange Act, which requires every issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to
Section 12 of the Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of

the issuer. Public companies are responsible for ensuring that their foreign subsidiaries comply
with Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A).

Internal Controls Violations

36. As detailed above, Stryker and its foreign subsidiaries failed to devise and
maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable
assurance that the company maintained accountability for its assets and that transactions were
executed in accordance with management’s authorization. Due to this lack of oversight, Stryker
incorrectly booked over $2.2 million in illicit payments to foreign officials as legitimate
expenses without properly examining the circumstances surrounding the accounting treatment of
these payments. In many instances, even a cursory review of the underlying documentation,
such as travel authorization forms and itineraries, would have revealed the illegitimate nature of
the payments.

37. As a result of the conduct described above, Stryker violated Section 13(b)(2)(B)
of the Exchange Act, which requires all public companies to, among other things, devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that
transactions are recorded in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
and transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in

6
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and to maintain accountability for assets. Public companies are responsible for
ensuring that their foreign subsidiaries comply with Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).

Stryker’s Remedial Efforts

38. In response to the Commission’s investigation, Stryker retained outside counsel to
assist Stryker in conducting an internal investigation into Stryker’s compliance with the FCPA in
the jurisdictions that were the subject of the staff's inquiry, as well as in jurisdictions where
issues arose through Stryker’s audit and hotline processes. Stryker voluntarily produced reports
and other materials to the Commission staff summarizing the findings of its internal
investigation. In total, Stryker produced over 800,000 pages of documents at Stryker’s expense,
including courtesy translations of numerous key documents.

39, Since the time of the conduct detailed above, Stryker implemented a company-
wide anti-corruption compliance program, which includes: (a) enhanced corporate policies and
standard operating procedures setting forth specific due diligence and documentation
requirements for relationships with foreign officials, health care professionals, consultants, and
distributors; (b) compliance monitoring and corporate auditing specifically tailored to anti-
corruption, including the hiring of a chief compliance officer and a sizeable full-time dedicated
staff in both its internal audit and compliance functions to ensure FCPA compliance and the
implementation of periodic self-assessments; (c) enhanced financial controls and governance; (d)
expanded anti-corruption training to all Stryker employees; and (e) the maintenance of an Ethics
Hotline which serves as a mechanism for employees to report any actual or suspected illegal or
unethical behavior.

AO. In addition to its internal anti-corruption enhancements, from 2007 through the
present, Stryker engaged a third-party consultant to perform FCPA compliance assessments and
compile written reports for Stryker’s operations in dozens of foreign jurisdictions across the
world at least annually. Stryker voluntarily produced documents that permitted the Commission
staff to assess how Stryker’s internal audit and compliance functions used the results of each of
the assessments to implement additional enhancements to its infrastructure, to target jurisdictions
for future assessments, and to create management action plans in collaboration with local
management.

41. Based on the improvements described above, Stryker has demonstrated a
commitment to designing and funding a meaningful compliance program in order to prevent and
detect violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-bribery laws.

V.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent Stryker’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Stryker shall cease and
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act;

Respondent shall, within ten days of the entry of this Order, pay $13,283,523 to
the United States Treasury, including $7,502,635 in disgorgement, $2,280,888 in
prejudgment interest thereon, and a civil monetary penalty of $3,500,000. If
timely payment is not made, interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of
Practice 600. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission
and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Stryker as
a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover
letter and check or money order must be sent to Andrew M. Calamari, Regional Director, New
York Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, Brookfield Place, 200 Vesey
Street, Suite 400, New York, NY 10281-1022.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary
