Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 20353 / October 31, 2007

Securities and Exchange Commission v. Ingersoll-Rand Company Ltd.,
Civil Action No. 107- CV- 01955 (D.D.C.) (JDB)

SEC Files Settled Books and Records and Internal Controls Charges
Against Ingersoll-Rand Company Ltd. For Improper Payments to Iraq
Under the U.N. Oil for Food Program - - Company Agrees to Pay Over
$4.2 Million and to Make Certain Undertakings Regarding its Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act Compliance Program

The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act books and records and internal controls charges against
Ingersoll-Rand Company Ltd., a New Jersey-based industrial equipment
company, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The
Commission's complaint alleges that from 2000 through 2003, four of
Ingersoll-Rand's subsidiaries entered into contracts in which $963,148 in
kickback payments were made and $544,697 in additional payments were
authorized in connection with sales of humanitarian goods to Iraq under the
U.N. Oil for Food Program (the "Program"). The kickbacks were characterized
as "after-sales service fees" ("ASSFs"), but no bona fide services were
performed. The Program was intended to provide humanitarian relief for the
Iraqi population, which faced severe hardship under international trade
sanctions. It allowed the Iraqi government to purchase humanitarian goods
through a U.N. escrow account. The kickbacks paid by Ingersoll-Rand's
subsidiaries and third parties diverted funds out of the escrow account and
into an Iraqi slush fund. The contracts submitted to the U.N. did not disclose
that the illicit payments were included in the inflated contract prices. The
complaint also alleges that $8,000 in "pocket money" and travel expenses
were paid to Iraqi government officials in connection with a trip to Italy.

According to the Commission's Complaint:

Ingersoll-Rand's German subsidiary ABG entered into six Program contracts
involving kickback payments of $718,637. In November 2000, shortly after an
ABG salesman negotiated two contracts in Baghdad, the office of Ingersoll-
Rand's Chairman received an anonymous fax alerting the company to the
kickback arrangement. Ingersoll-Rand initiated an investigation and
questioned the salesman, who admitted to agreeing to pay back $292,578 to
the Iraqi Ministry. ABG attempted to go forward with the contracts with some
disclosure to the U.N. that money was going back to Iraq. However, the U.N.
advised that the payments were not allowed and the contracts were never
concluded. Ingersoll-Rand did not withdraw from the Program and failed to
conduct appropriate due diligence to prevent the payment of ASSFs on other
Program contracts. Indeed, in the following year, ABG negotiated four
additional contracts. These were distributorship agreements, in which ABG
sold its products to intermediaries that ABG knew would resell them into Iraq.
Ingersoll-Rand either knew or was reckless in not knowing that the
distributors made, or agreed to make, a total of $426,059 in kickback
payments on the four contracts.

Ingersoll-Rand's subsidiary I-R Italiana entered into four Program contracts
involving a total of $474,302 in ASSF payments. To conceal the kickbacks, I-R
Italiana increased the payment due on each contract by 10% and created a
fictitious line item on its purchase orders to justify the extra payment. I-R
Italiana entered into two side letters with Iraq to pay the ASSFs, which were
not disclosed to the U.N. In one of the side letters, I-R Italiana stated explicitly
that the fictitious purchase order description used to conceal the kickback did
not represent an actual performance obligation on I-R Italiana's part. In
February 2002, I-R Italiana sponsored eight officials from the Iraqi Oil Ministry
to spend two days touring a manufacturing facility in Italy. According to
internal e-mail messages, the Iraqi officials spent two additional days "on
holiday" touring Florence at the company's expense, and were also given
$8,000 in "pocket money."

Ingersoll-Rand's Irish subsidiary Thermo-King signed a side agreement with an
Iraq Ministry to make an ASSF payment of $53,919, which was not disclosed
to the U.N. The contract failed to receive U.N. approval for unrelated reasons.
Ingersoll-Rand's Belgian subsidiary I-R Benelux sold products to a Jordanian
third party, which I-R Benelux knew would sell the equipment into Iraq at a
70% markup. I-R Benelux shipped the goods to Iraq and obtained all the
necessary export control licenses. The third party, when questioned by the
U.N. Independent Inquiry Committee, subsequently confirmed that it had
made the ASSF payment.

Ingersoll-Rand knew or was reckless in not knowing that illicit payments were
either offered or paid in connection with all of these transactions. Ingersoll-
Rand failed to maintain an adequate system of internal controls to detect and
prevent the payments. Ingersoll-Rand's accounting for these transactions
failed properly to record the nature of the company's payments, and
characterized some ASSFs as "sales deductions" or "other commissions".

Ingersoll-Rand, without admitting or denying the allegations in the
Commission's complaint, consented to the entry of a final judgment
permanently enjoining it from future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, ordering it to disgorge
$1,710,034 in profits, plus $560,953 in pre-judgment interest, and to pay a
civil penalty of $1,950,000. Ingersoll-Rand is also ordered to comply with
certain undertakings regarding its FCPA compliance program. Ingersoll-Rand
will also pay a $2,500,000 fine pursuant to a deferred prosecution agreement
with the U.S. Department of Justice, Fraud Section.

The Commission considered remedial acts promptly undertaken by Ingersoll-
Rand and the cooperation the company afforded the Commission staff in its
investigation. The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the
Department of Justice, Fraud Section and the United Nations Independent
Inquiry Committee.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http:/www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/200 7/r20353.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 10/31/2007
