UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION,

100 F. Street, NE

Washington, D.C. 20549-6030
Maindity, Case: 1:07-cv-01955

Assigned To : Bates, John D.

Assign. Date : 10/31/2007

Description: General Civil

Vv.

INGERSOLL-RAND COMPANY LIMITED
Clarendon House

2 Church Street

Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda

Defendant.

New New! Seow’ Nene’ Nowe’ Neue” Nee” Neu Nee eee ne Nee’ Nee” Nee” Nee Nee” Nee See’

 

COMPLAINT
Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), alleges:
SUMMARY

1. From approximately 2000 through 2003, Ingersoll-Rand Company
Limited (“Ingersoll-Rand”) violated the books and records and internal controls |
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, et .
seq.] when its subsidiaries entered into contracts involving approximately $1,507,845 in
kickback payments in connection with sales of industrial equipment to Iraqi government
entities under the United Nations Oil for Food Program. On some of these contracts,
Ingersoll-Rand, through its subsidiaries, authorized or paid these kickbacks in the form of
under-the-table “after sales service fees” (“ASSF”). On other contracts, the ASSF
payments were made either by distributors or third parties. Ingersoll-Rand knew or was

reckless in not knowing that the kickbacks were paid or agreed to. And it knew that the
ASSF payments were prohibited by the Oil for Food Program, as well as under U.S. and
international] trade sanctions.

2. Ingersoll-Rand also violated the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the FCPA when its Italian subsidiary I-R Italiana paid travel and hotel
expenses for eight Iraqi government officials to visit Italy for six nights, a portion of
which included a factory tour and training, and the remainder holiday travel. In addition
I-R Italiana provided the officials with a total of $8,000 in “pocket money.”

3. The Oil for Food Program was intended to provide humanitarian relief to
the Iraqi population, then subject to comprehensive international trade sanctions. The
Program allowed the Iraqi government to purchase necessary humanitarian goods, but
required that all purchases be made through a U.N.-controlled escrow account. The
kickbacks paid in connection with Ingersoll-Rand’s Oil for Food contracts had the effect
of diverting funds out of the escrow account and into an Iraqi slush fund.

4. In accounting for certain of its Oil for Food Program transactions,
Ingersoll-Rand failed to accurately record the nature of the ASSF payments as kickbacks
to the Iraqi regime. Ingersoll-Rand also failed to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to detect and prevent the illicit ASSF payments.

5. As a result of the conduct above, Ingersoll-Rand violated Sections
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
Act”) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)].

JURISDICTION |
6. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),

and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. Ingersoll-Rand,
directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce,
of the mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection with the
transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.

7. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] because Ingersoll-Rand does business in this judicial district.

DEFENDANT

8. Ingersoll-Rand is a Bermuda company with its executive offices in
Montvale, New Jersey, and Davidson, North Carolina. Ingersoll-Rand is a global
diversified industrial firm that provides industrial equipment and products and services to
| transport food and perishables, and secure homes and commercial properties. Four
Ingersoll-Rand subsidiaries sold goods to Iraq under the Oil for Food Program. Ingersoll-
Rand’s common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 781(b)] and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol “TR.”

RELEVANT ENTITIES

9. ABG Allgemeine Baumaschinen-Gesellschaft mbH (“ABG’”) was a
wholly-owned German subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand. During the relevant time, ABG
manufactured and sold road construction equipment, including pavers, and compactors.

10. Ingersoll-Rand Italiana, SpA. (“‘T-R Italiana”) is a wholly-owned Italian
subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand. I-R Italiana manufactures and sells large air compressors
under the brand name Centac for use in oil refineries. Its principal manufacturing facility

is in Vignate, Italy.
1]. Thermo King Ireland Limited (“Thermo-King Europe”) is a wholly-
owned Irish subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand. Thermo-King Europe manufactures and sells
refrigeration equipment for trucks, buses, and rail cars.

12. Ingersoll-Rand Benelux, N.V. (“I-R Benelux”) is a wholly-owned
Belgian subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand. J-R Benelux manufactures and sells skid steer
loaders and other compact construction vehicles.

13. Ingersoll-Rand World Trade Ltd. (“IRWT”), based in Fribourg,
Switzerland, was during the relevant period.a trading subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand.
IRWT handled contract administration for many of Ingersoll-Rand’s manufacturing
subsidiaries, including transactions involved in the Oil for Food Program. IRWT’s
responsibilities included obtaining U.N. authorization for Oil for Food contracts and
obtaining export control permits.

FACTS
I The United Nations Oil for Food Program

14. Following Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1991, the United Nations Security
Council and the United States imposed comprehensive economic sanctions on Iraq. Over
the following years, the sanctions triggered a humanitarian crisis, with severe shortages
of food and medical supplies. In response, the U.N. Security Council authorized a relief
program under which the Iraqi government would be permitted to sell crude oil and use
the proceeds to purchase humanitarian supplies.

15. Under the terms of the Oil for: Food Program, the Iraqi government was
authorized to sell crude oil to buyers of its choosing. A U.N. committee reviewed the

commercial terms of each contract and approved each sale. The proceeds were wired by
the purchaser directly into an escrow account maintained by the U.N. at BNP Paribas in
New York. The Iraqi government was not given direct access to the proceeds of its oil
sales, but was allowed to use the funds to purchase humanitarian goods, subject to U.N.
review and approval. Individual Iraqi ministries could negotiate contracts for approved
categories of products. The suppliers submitted their contracts to the U.N. committee for
-review. Upon approval of each contract, and after verification that the goods had been
received in Iraq, the committee authorized payment to the supplier from funds in the
escrow account. |
16. The Oil for Food Program was intended to maximize the Iraqi
government’s flexibility in meeting its humanitarian needs, while preventing it from
undermining trade sanctions by diverting cash from the transactions. In practice,
however, the Iraqi government was able to circumvent the Program’s restrictions by
demanding massive under-the-table payments from its contract partners. Starting around
August 2000, each Iraqi ministry demanded a 10% “after sales service fee” (““ASSF”) on
all humanitarian goods purchased under the Program. The fee bore no relation to any
actual services and was, in reality, an illicit 10% kickback to the Iraqi regime. The ASSF
payment. was not identified in the official purchase contracts that the suppliers provided
for U.N. review and was not made through the U.Ns authorized payment channels.

17. According to the U.N.’s Independent Inquiry Committee created to
investigate corruption in the Program, the Iraqi regime collected just over $1 billion in
ASSF payments from suppliers. Payments were typically made in cash by the suppliers

_ holding the Oil for Food contracts. The associated cost of the ASSF payments was

passed along to the U.N.-controlled escrow account as the suppliers inflated their contract
prices to cover the illicit payments. The ultimate economic effect of the kickbacks,
therefore, was to deprive the U.N.’s humanitarian program of over $1 billion in
humanitarian resources that otherwise would have been available to it.

18. Each Iraqi ministry was responsible for collecting ASSF payments on the
contracts it administered. In addition, the Ministry of Transportation ensured that no
- humanitarian supplies were permitted to cross Iraq’s border without proof that all
required ASSF payments had been paid. Because the payments violated U.N.
‘requirements, the collection effort was handled surreptitiously. As demanded by Iraqi
officials, the supplier made its ASSF payment -- either directly or through an Iraqi front
company -- in cash at an Iraqi embassy or by depositing the funds at the Iragi-owned Al-
Rashid Bank in Lebanon or the Al-Rafidain Bank in Jordan.

19. -Following the U.S. invasion and occupation of Baghdad in 2003, the
Coalition Provisional Authority assumed responsibility for ongoing Oil for Food
contracts. The Provisional Authority put an end to the ASSF kickback requirement and
renegotiated all open contracts to remove the associated 10% markups.

I Ingersoll-Rand’s Payment of ASSF’s under the Program

20. Ingersoll-Rand engaged in Oil for Food transactions through four of its
European subsidiaries: ABG, I-R Italiana, Thermo-King Europe; and J-R Benelux.
Ingersoll-Rand subsidiaries entered into twelve contracts in which an ASSF kickback
payment was either made or agreed to. In total, Ingersoll-Rand subsidiaries, their
| distributors, and one contract partner made ASSF payments of approximately $963,148

and authorized additional payments of $544,697.
A. Contracts Involving ABG

21. Ingersoll-Rand’s German subsidiary ABG entered into a total of six
contracts involving ASSF payments. The first two of these were contracts with the
Mayoralty of Baghdad for the sale of approximately $3.2 million in road construction
equipment for use by the Iraqi Ministry of Housing. In late November 2000, as the
agreements were being negotiated, an ABG Sales Manager met with Iraqi officials in
Baghdad, where he was given revised contracts prepared by the Iraqi Ministry of
Housing. The revisions included 10% price markups to be included in the contracts ABG
submitted for U.N. approval. The Iraqi officials also demanded a 10% cash payment.
The contract did not disclose the cash payment back to the Iraqi Ministry.

22. On November 27, 2000, shortly after the Baghdad meeting, the
Woodcliffe Lakes, New Jersey, office of Ingersoll-Rand’s Chairman received an
anonymous fax alerting the company to a kickback arrangement:

“Thy reference to your A/M contract, we would like to alert you that it is
against UN & U.S. regulations, to reimburse in cash, the Iraqi government
with 10 percent of the contract amount, which is hidden in the contract’s

amount.

‘Although you are reimbursing through your agent, .. . , this does make
_ you totally responsible for this major offense. ...” —- .

Upon receiving the document, Ingersoll-Rand initiated an investigation into the
allegations. ABG’s Sales Manager was questioned about the Baghdad Mayoralty
transaction and admitted that the Baghdad Mayoralty contracts contained ten percent
‘mark-ups, which would be paid back to the Iraqi Ministry as “working capital,” which

totaled $292,578.
23. After discussing the matter with ABG’s Sales Manager and seeking advice
from outside counsel; ABG, through the trading company IR WT, attempted to go
forward with the Baghdad Mayoralty transactions. They submitted the contracts for U.N.
approval with a short statement on a cover letter that each contract “includes 10%
working capital to be given as a rebate to [the] Baghdad Mayoralty.” After receiving
questions from the U.N., ABG later admitted that the 10% amount represented a cash
payment to the Iraqi Ministry. The U.N. officials advised that the payments were not
allowed under Security Council resolutions and had to be eliminated from the contracts...
Ultimately, the Baghdad Mayoralty refused to go forward with the contract without the
10% payment, and the contracts were never concluded.

24. Under these circumstances, senior officials at Ingersoll-Rand’s corporate
headquarters, ABG, and IRWT, were on notice that Iraqi government officials were |
demanding cash kickbacks on Oil for Food contracts and that such ASSF payments were
prohibited under U.N: Security Council resolutions and, by extension, U.S. and
international trade sanctions.

| 25. Ingersoll-Rand did not withdraw from participation in the Oil for Food
- Program. Nor did it conduct appropriate due diligence to prevent the payment of ASSF
payments under future Oil for F ood contracts. Indeed, in the year following termination
of the Baghdad Mayoralty transactions, ABG’s Sales Manager negotiated four more Oil
for Food contracts on ABG’s behalf. This latter group of contracts was entered into on
an indirect, or distributorship, basis, with knowledge that the goods would be resold into

Iraq.
| 26. The distributors made, or agreed to make, ASSF payments on all four
contracts. ABG’s Jordanian distributor made a total of $107,754 in ASSF payments on
two contracts. ABG’s Lebanese distributor made an ASSF payment of $120,305 on one
contract and entered into a side agreement to make an additional ASSF payment of
$198,000.0n another contract. The $198,000 payment was never made because the
contract was renegotiated by the Coalition Provisional Authority after the 2003 invasion.
27. Ingersoll-Rand, ABG, and IRWT either knew or were reckless in not
knowing that ASSF payments had been paid or offered under each of the four contracts.
B. __ Contracts Involving I-R Italiana
28. — Ingersoll-Rand’s Italian subsidiary, LR Italiana, manufactured large air
compressors under the CENTAC brand for use in oil refineries. Between November
. 2000 and May 2002, I-R Italiana entered into four Oil for Food contracts involving a total
of $473,302 in ASSF payments. The first three were direct contracts between
IL-R Italiana and the Iraqi Oil Ministry. The fourth was a third-party contract made
through I-R Italiana’s Jordanian distributor.
29. The I-R Italiana contracts were negotiated by the company’s Middle East
Sales Manager. In November 2000 _ at about the same time that Ingersoll-Rand’s
Chairman received the anonymous fax concerning the Baghdad Mayoralty kickbacks --
7 the Sales Manager signed the three direct contracts with the Iraqi State Oil Marketing
‘Organization (“SOMO”). During the negotiation, the Sales Manager agreed to pay a
10% ASSF ‘payment on each contract. To conceal the ASSF payments, the Sales

- Manager and SOMO increased the payment due on each contract by 10% and created a
fictitious line item on I-R Italiana’s purchase orders to justify the extra payment to the
UN.

30. The Sales Manager signed at least two side letters on I-R Italiana’s behalf
committing the company to make the required ASSF payments. In.one of the side letters,
the Sales Manager stated explicitly that the fictitious purchase order description used to
conceal the kickback did not represent an actual performance obligation on I-R Italiana’s
part. The side letter specified that “the item . . . piping, installation and commissioning,

- has been added only to pay the client, Baiji Refinery; the amount of [$181,032], and
[J-R Italiana] is not obliged to meet this type of requirement.”

31. — I-R Italiana’s Sales Manager arranged for LR Italiana’s Jordanian
distributor to make the ASSF payments to SOMO under the three contracts. In order to
conceal the nature of the payments, the distributor issued invoices to J-R Italiana for work
that it either did not perform or that would already have been covered in the distributor’s
base commission. The invoices described such services as providing “follow up on all
U.N. administrative work,” supervising the unloading and installation of equipment, and
covering the “cost of any additional insurance.”

32. In its accounting books and records, I-R Italiana incorrectly recorded its
ASSF payments to its Jordanian distributor as “sales deductions.” The company
incorrectly recorded its payment on a third contract under the account “other
commissions.”

33.  I-R Italiana’s fourth Oil for Food contract was handled in a different
manner from the previous three. In or around October 2001, the Iraqi government

revoked the requirement that all transactions be negotiated and entered into directly with

10
manufacturers. As a result, I-R Italiana resumed selling goods into Iraq through its
distributors. Thus, for the fourth contract, the goods were sold through I-R Italiana’s
Jordanian distributor. I-R Italiana sold compressor parts to the distributor, which re-sold
them to the Iraqis at a 119% markup. In this instance, it was the distributor, not
I-R Italiana, that signed an October 10, 2001, side agreement to make an ASSF payment
of $178,692. A June 20, 2001, memorandum agreement between I-R Italiana and the -
Jordanian distributor explicitly refers to the distributor’s obligation to make the ASSF
payment under this contract.

C. Contract Involving Thermo-King Europe

34.  Ingersoll-Rand’s Irish subsidiary Thermo-King Europe authorized an.
ASSF payment on one contract. On October 19, 2000, the Regional Director for |
Thermo-King Europe and Thermo-King Europe’s Iraq dealer arrived in Baghdad to
finalize a contract for the sale of spare parts for refrigerated trucks to the Iraqi
government-owned General Automobile & Machinery Trading Company (<GAMCO”).
At that meeting, the Regional Director signed a side agreement with GAMCO to make an
ASSF payment of $53,91 9. |

35. The ASSF payment obligation was not reflected in the contract documents |
submitted to the UN. The contract, however, failed to receive U.N. approval for reasons
unrelated to the ASSF payment. | |

D. Contract Involving I-R Benelux

36.  Ingersoll-Rand’s Belgian subsidiary I-R Benelux had a role in one contract
involving an ASSF payment of $260,787. On June 27, 2002, I-R Benelux entered into a

contract with a Jordanian third party to sell 100 skid steer loaders and spare parts for

11
resale to the Iraqi State Company for Agricultural Supplies. The Jordanian third party
resold the equipment into Iraq through the Oil for Food Program, with I-R Benelux’s
knowledge, at a 70% markup. I-R Benelux shipped the goods into Iraq and obtained all
necessary export control licenses.

37. The third party subsequently confirmed in writing that it had made the
ASSF payment when questioned by the U.N. Independent Inquiry Committee.

38. As noted above, by the time this contract was entered into, officials at
Ingersoll-Rand’s headquarters were on notice that Jraqi authorities were demanding illicit
ASSF payments.on all Oil for Food Program contracts. Ingersoll-Rand did not perform
appropriate due diligence on the Jordanian third party or on this contract to ensure that no
ASSF payments were being made in connection with it.

E. I-R Italiana’s Payment of Travel and Entertainment Expenses and
“Pocket Money” to Iraqi Government Officials

39. In February 2002 officials at I-R Italiana sponsored a site visit by eight
Officials from the Iraqi Oil Ministry’s Baiji refinery. The Iraqi officials spent two days
touring and training at the company’s manufacturing facility in Vignate, Italy. According
to internal email messages, the Iraqi officials spent two additional days “on holiday”
touring Florence at the company’s expense. Although the factory tour had a legitimate
business purpose, the F lorence tour did not. I-R Italiana paid approximately $10,484 on
hotels, $1,798 on taxis, and distributed $1,000 in “pocket money” to each of the Iraqi
officials. | |

40. __ I-R Italiana’s payment of holiday travel expenses and “pocket money”
violated Ingersoll-Rand’s internal policies regarding payments to foreign government

officials. The company’s 2002 FCPA Manual permitted payments directly related to

12
product demonstrations or actual contracts but expressly prohibited any payment for
vacations. The company’s Travel Guidelines expressly barred any cash payment of .
“pocket money” or “walking around money.”

41. Ingersoll-Rand also failed to account properly for its pocket money
payments in its accounting books and records, recording the payments under a general
ledger account for “cost of sales deferred.” |
TH Ingersoll-Rand’s Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

42. Ingersoll-Rand failed to maintain a system of internal controls sufficient
(i) to ensure that the company’s transactions under the Oil for Food Program were
executed in accordance with management’s authorization and Gi) to maintain
accountability for the company’s assets. As discussed above, Ingersoll-Rand subsidiaries
either made or agreed to make numerous illicit payments that contravened the Oil for
Food Program, US. and international trade sanctions, and its own internal FCPA and
anti-bribery policies. In addition, I-R Italiana paid for the travel expenses of Iraqi
_ officials and provided them with “pocket money,” in contravention of Ingersoll-Rand’s
- internal FCPA policies.

: 43. Ingersoll-Rand failed to devise and maintain an effective system of
' internal controls to prevent or detect these violations of the FCPA, as required by
Exchange Act Section 13(6)(2)).

IV Ingersoll-Rand Fails to Properly Maintain Its Books and Records

44. — As described above, Ingersoll-Rand’s accounting for its Oil for Food
transactions failed properly to record the nature of the ASSF payments. In at least three

transactions, the subsidiaries’ sale price for goods sold under the Program included ASSF

13
payments in violation of UN regulations and trade sanctions, as well as Ingersoll-Rand’s
FCPA policies. The company’s subsidiaries failed to properly designate those payments,
characterizing them instead as “sales deductions” or “other commissions.”

45. | One of the company’s subsidiaries also failed to accurately designate its
improper payment of “pocket money” and travel expenses it made to visiting Iraqi
government officials by characterizing the payment as “cost of sales deferred,” thereby
failing accurately to record these payments in its books, records, and accounts.

| CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM |
{Violations.of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

46. Paragraphs 1 through 45 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

47. As described above, Ingersoll-Rand, through its officers, agents and
subsidiaries, failed to keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets.

48. By reason of the foregoing, Ingersoll-Rand violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

| SECOND CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]

49. Paragraphs 1 through 48 are realleged and incorporated by reference.

50. As described above, Ingersoll-Rand failed to devise and maintain a system
of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that payments
were: (i) made in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and

(ii) recorded as necessary to maintain accountability for its assets.

14
51. By reason of the foregoing, Ingersoll-Rand violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b\(2\B)}.
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment: | |

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining Ingersoll-Rand from violating
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A)
and (B)];

B. Ordering Ingersoll-Rand to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment
interest, wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct; a

C. Ordering Ingersoll-Rand to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) |
of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; and

D. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Dated: Det 3/_, 2007

Respectfully submitted,

4, Zeb

heryl J, &catboro (D.C. Bar No. Y 2 21 a
Tracy L. Price

Robert I. Dodge

Attorneys for Plaintiff,
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. ©
100 F Street, NE
Mail Stop 6030 SPII
Washington, DC 20549-6030
(202) 551-4403 (Scarboro)

15
