UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 74356 / February 24, 2015

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 3640 / February 24, 2015

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16400

 

 

 

In the Matter of ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO
THE GOODYEAR TIRE & SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
RUBBER COMPANY, EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER
I,

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company
(“Goodyear” or “Respondent’).

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Making Findings, and
Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order’’), as set forth below.
TI.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds' that:
Summary

1. This case involves violations of the books, records, and internal control provisions of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) by Goodyear. Goodyear, headquartered in Akron,
Ohio, is one of the world’s largest tire companies. From 2007 through 2011, Goodyear
subsidiaries in Kenya (Treadsetters Tyres Ltd., or “Treadsetters”) and Angola (Trentyre Angola
Lda., or “Trentyre”) routinely paid bribes to employees of government-owned entities and
private companies to obtain tire sales. These same subsidiaries also paid bribes to police, tax,
and other local authorities. In all, between 2007 and 2011, Goodyear subsidiaries in Kenya and
Angola made over $3.2 million in illicit payments.

2. All of these bribery payments were falsely recorded as legitimate business expenses
in the books and records of these subsidiaries which were consolidated into Goodyear’s books and
records. Goodyear did not prevent or detect these improper payments because it failed to
implement adequate FCPA compliance controls at its subsidiaries in sub-Saharan Africa.

Respondent

3. Goodyear, an Ohio corporation headquartered in Akron, Ohio, is one of the
world’s largest tire manufacturers. Goodyear has manufacturing facilities in 22 countries and sells
tires in most countries around the world. Goodyear’s common stock is registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on The NASDAQ Stock
Market.

Other Relevant Entities

4. Magister Ltd. (“Magister”) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Goodyear
incorporated in Mauritius, and headquartered in South Africa. Magister holds the shares and
oversees the operations of the Goodyear subsidiaries in sub-Saharan Africa. During the relevant
time period this included Treadsetters in Kenya and Trentyre in Angola.

5. Treadsetters is a retail tire distributor incorporated and located in Kenya. During
the relevant time period, Treadsetters was an indirect subsidiary of Goodyear, and had annual
revenues of approximately $20 million. Goodyear divested its ownership interest in Treadsetters
in 2013.

6. Trentyre is a retail tire distributor incorporated and located in Angola. Trentyre
is a wholly owned subsidiary of Goodyear. During the relevant time period, Trentyre had
annual revenues between $6 million and $20 million.

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
Improper Payments in Kenya

7. Treadsetters is a retail tire distributor in Kenya. In 2002, Goodyear acquired a
minority ownership interest in Treadsetters. By 2006, Goodyear had acquired a majority ownership
interest in the company, though the day-to-day operations of Treadsetters continued to be run by
Treadsetters’ founders and the local general manager. During the relevant time period, Treadsetters
had annual revenues of approximately $20 million.

8. From 2007 through 2011, Treadsetters’ management regularly authorized and paid
bribes to employees of government-owned or affiliated entities, and private companies, to obtain
business. The practice was routine and appears to have been in place prior to Goodyear’s
acquisition of Treadsetters. The bribes generally were paid in cash and falsely recorded on
Treadsetters’ books as expenses for promotional products.

9. Treadsetters’ general manager and finance director were at the center of the
scheme. They approved payments for phony promotional products, and then directed the finance
assistant to write-out the checks to cash. Treadsetters’ staff then cashed the checks and used the
money to make improper payments to employees of customers, which included both government-
owned entities and private companies.

10. Between 2007 and 2011, Treadsetters paid over $1.5 million in bribes in connection
with the sale of tires. This included improper payments to employees of government-owned or
affiliated entities including the Kenya Ports Authority, the Armed Forces Canteen Organization,
the Nzoia Sugar Company, the Kenyan Air Force, the Ministry of Roads, the Ministry of State for
Defense, the East African Portland Cement Co., and Telkom Kenya Ltd. During that same time
period, Treadsetters also made approximately $14,457 in improper payments to local government
officials in Kenya, including city council employees, police, and building inspectors.

11. Goodyear did not detect or prevent these improper payments because it failed to
conduct adequate due diligence when it acquired Treadsetters, and failed to implement adequate
FCPA compliance training and controls after the acquisition.

Improper Payments in Angola

12. Trentyre was incorporated in 2007, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Goodyear.
Trentyre is primarily engaged in selling new tires for mining equipment. During the relevant time
period, Trentyre had annual revenues between $6 million and $20 million.

13. From 2007 through 2011, Trentyre paid over $1.6 million in bribes to employees of
government-owned or affiliated entities, and private companies, to obtain tire sales. Trentyre paid
approximately $1.4 million of these bribes to employees of government-owned or affiliated
entities in Angola, including the Catoca Diamond Mine, UNICARGAS, Engevia Construction
and Public Works, the Electric Company of Luanda, National Service of Alfadega, and Sonangol.
A majority of these improper payments were paid to employees of Trentyre’s largest customer at
the time, the Catoca Diamond Mine, which is owned by a consortium of mining interests,
including Endiama E.P., Angola’s national mining company, and ALROSA, a Russian mining
company. During the same time period, Trentyre also made approximately $64,713 in improper
payments to local government officials in Angola, including police and tax authorities.

14. The bribery scheme was put in place by Trentyre’s former general manager. To
hide the scheme and generate funds for the improper payments, Trentyre falsely marked-up the
costs of its tires by adding to its invoice price phony freight and customs clearing costs. On a
monthly basis, as tires were sold, the phony freight and clearing costs were reclassified to a
balance sheet account. Trentyre made improper payments to employees of customers both in cash
and through wire transfers. As bribes were paid, the amounts were debited from the balance sheet
account, and falsely recorded as payments to vendors for freight and clearing costs.

15. Goodyear did not prevent or detect these improper payments because it failed to
implement adequate FCPA compliance training and controls at this subsidiary.

Legal Standards and Violations

16. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or
would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known
would contribute to such violation.

17. Under Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to make and
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and disposition of the assets of the issuer. [15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(A)].

18. Under Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act issuers are required to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that
(1) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization;
(11) transactions are recorded as necessary (1) to permit preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (111) access to assets is permitted only in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded
accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and
appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. [15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(B)].

19. As described above, Goodyear subsidiaries in Kenya and Angola made improper
payments to employees of government-owned entities and private companies to obtain business.
These improper payments were falsely recorded as legitimate business expenses in the books and
records of these subsidiaries which were consolidated into Goodyear’s books and records.
Accordingly, Goodyear violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. As described above,
Goodyear also violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by failing to devise and maintain
sufficient accounting controls to prevent and detect these improper payments.
Goodyear’s Cooperation and Remedial Efforts

20. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. After
receiving information about the bribes, Goodyear promptly halted the improper payments and
reported the matter to Commission staff. Goodyear also provided significant cooperation with the
Commission’s investigation. This included voluntarily producing documents and reports and other
information from the company’s internal investigation, and promptly responding to Commission
staffs requests for information and documents. These efforts assisted the Commission in efficiently
collecting evidence including information that may not have been otherwise available to the staff.

21. Goodyear also has undertaken remedial efforts. In Kenya, Goodyear divested its
ownership interest in Treadsetters, and ceased all business dealings with the company. In Angola,
after Goodyear halted the improper payments its subsidiary lost its largest customer. Goodyear is
now in the process of divesting this subsidiary.

22. Goodyear also undertook disciplinary action against certain employees, including
executives of its Europe, Middle East and Africa region who had oversight responsibility, for
failing to ensure adequate FCPA compliance training and controls were in place at the company’s
subsidiaries in sub-Saharan Africa.

23. Goodyear also implemented improvements to its compliance program, both specific
to its operations in sub-Saharan Africa, and globally. In Africa, the improvements include
expanded on-line and in-person anti-corruption training for subsidiary management, sales, and
finance personnel; regular audits, by internal audit, specifically focused on corruption risks;
quarterly self-assessment questionnaires required of each subsidiary regarding business with
government-affiliated customers; quarterly management certifications from every subsidiary that
cover among other things controls over financial reporting; and annual testing of internal controls
at each subsidiary. To increase oversight, Goodyear also put in place a new regional management
structure, and added new compliance, accounting, and audit positions. Goodyear is also making
technology improvements, where possible, to electronically link subsidiaries in sub-Saharan
Africa to its global network. At the parent company, Goodyear created a new senior position of
Vice President of Compliance and Ethics, which further elevated the compliance function within
the company. Goodyear has also expanded on-line and in-person anti-corruption and ethics
training at its other subsidiaries, and implemented a new Integrity Hotline Web Portal, which
enhanced users’ ability to file anonymous online reports to its hotline system. With that system,
Goodyear is also implementing a new case management system for legal, compliance and internal
audit to document and track complaints, investigations and remediation. Goodyear also has
updated its policies governing third-party agents and vendors, and is in the process of
implementing a new third-party due diligence software tool.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in the Respondent Goodyear’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Goodyear cease and
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.

B. Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$14,122,525 and prejudgment interest of $2,105,540 to the United States Treasury.
If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule
of Practice 600. Payments must be made in one of the following ways:

1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
shall provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Goodyear as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Brian O. Quinn, Assistant Director,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
DC 20549.

C. Respondent shall report to the Commission staff periodically, at no less than twelve-
month intervals during a three-year term, the status of its remediation and
implementation of compliance measures. Should respondent discover credible
evidence, not already reported to the Commission staff, that questionable or corrupt
payments or questionable or corrupt transfers of property or interests may have been
offered, promised, paid, or authorized by Respondent entity or person, or any entity
or person while working directly for Respondent, or that related false books and
records have been maintained, Respondent shall promptly report such conduct to the
Commission staff. During this three-year period, Respondent shall: (1) conduct an
initial review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare at least two
(2) follow-up reviews and reports, as described below:

1) Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff a written report within one
(1) year of the entry of this Order setting forth a complete description of its
FCPA and anti-corruption related remediation efforts to date, its proposals
reasonably designed to improve the policies and procedures of Respondent
for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption
laws, and the parameters of the subsequent reviews (the “Initial Report’).
The Initial Report shall be transmitted to Brian O. Quinn, Assistant Director,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F
Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Respondent may extend the time
period for issuance of the Initial Report with prior written approval of the
Commission staff.

2) Respondent shall undertake at least two (2) follow-up reviews, incorporating
any comments provided by the Commission staff on the previous report, to
further monitor and assess whether the policies and procedures of
Respondent are reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the
FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws (the “Follow-up Reports”).

3) The first Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than one (1) year
after the Initial Report. The second Follow-up Report shall be completed by
no later than one (1) year after the completion of the first Follow-up Report.
Respondent may extend the time period for issuance of the Follow-up
Reports with prior written approval of the Commission staff.

4) The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Respondent will likely
include proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive business
information. Public disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation,
impede pending or potential government investigations or undermine the
objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the
reports and the contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-
public, except (1) pursuant to court order, (2) as agreed by the parties in
writing, (3) to the extent that the Commission staff determines in its sole
discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Commission’s
discharge of its duties and responsibilities, or (4) is otherwise required by
law.

Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty
based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and related
enforcement action. If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division
of Enforcement (“Division”) obtains information indicating that Respondent
knowingly provided materially false or misleading information or materials to the
Commission or in a related proceeding, the Division may, at its sole discretion
and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to reopen this
matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay a civil money penalty.
Respondent may contest by way of defense in any resulting administrative
proceeding whether it knowingly provided materially false or misleading
information, but may not: (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any
defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to any statute of
limitations defense.

By the Commission

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
