 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the ON
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION Office of Proceedings

Proceedings Clerk

 

 

 

 

i114 am, Sep 19, 2018 }

In the Matter of:
Bank of America, N.A., CFTC Docket No. 18 -34

Respondent.

Nee ee ee” eee” SN”

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL sanctions

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
Bank of America, N.A. (“Bank of America,” the “Bank,” or “Respondent’”) violated the
Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act” or “CEA”) and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”).
Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent
engaged in the violations set forth herein, and to determine whether any order shall be issued
imposing remedial sanctions.

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to the
entry and acknowledges service of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c)
and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial sanctions
(“Order”).

 

' Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding and in any other
proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party; provided, however, that Respondent
does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of this
Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this
Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other proceeding.
Il.

The Commission finds the following:

A. Summary

Beginning in January 2007 and continuing through December 2012 (the “Relevant
Period”), Bank of America, by and through certain of its traders, attempted to manipulate the
U.S. Dollar International Swaps and Derivatives Association Fix (“USD ISDAFIX” or the
benchmark’), a leading global benchmark referenced in a range of interest rate products, to
benefit the Bank’s derivatives positions.

ISDAFIX rates and spreads were published daily and were meant to indicate the
prevailing mid-market rate, at a specific time of day, for the fixed leg of a standard fixed-for-
floating interest rate swap.” They were issued in several currencies. USD ISDAFIX rates and
spreads were published for various maturities of U.S. Dollar-denominated swaps, including 1-
year to 10-years, 15-years, 20-years, and 30-years. The most widely used USD ISDAFIX rates
and spreads, and the ones at issue in this Order, were those that were intended to indicate the
prevailing market rate as of 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The 11:00 am. USD ISDAFIX rate was
used for the cash settlement of options on interest rate swaps, or swaptions, and as a valuation
tool for certain other interest rate products. For example, USD ISDAFIX was used during the
Relevant Period in settlement of interest rate swap futures contracts traded on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange (“CME”).

During the Relevant Period, USD ISDAFIX was set each day in a process that began at
11:00 a.m. Eastern Time with the capture and recording of swap rates and spreads from a U.S.-
based unit of a leading interest rate swaps broking firm (“Swaps Broker”). Swaps Broker
disseminated rates and spreads captured in this 11:00 a.m. “snapshot,” “fix,” or “print”—as it
was referred to by traders and brokers—as references to a panel of banks. (These reference rates
and spreads were calculated using swap spread trade data from Swaps Broker, U.S. Treasuries
electronic trade data from Swaps Broker, and Eurodollar futures at or around 11:00 a.m.) The
panel banks then made submissions to Swaps Broker. Each bank’s submission was supposed to
reflect the midpoint of where that bank would itself offer and bid a swap to a dealer of good
credit as of 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Most banks on the panel, including Bank of America,
usually submitted Swaps Broker’s reference rates and spreads as captured in the snapshot. As a
result, after an averaging of the submissions, the reference rates and spreads became the
published USD ISDAFIX almost every day.

However, on certain days on which Bank of America had a trading position settling
against the USD ISDAFIX, the Bank attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by making false
submissions for the Bank as a panel bank to Swaps Broker, skewing the rates and spreads
submitted in the direction that could have moved the USD ISDAFIX setting to benefit the
Bank’s trading positions. A bank’s derivatives trading positions or profitability are not
legitimate or permissible factors on which to base submissions in connection with a benchmark.
Yet on occasion during the Relevant Period, certain Bank of America traders caused the Bank to

 

* In 2014, the administration of ISDAFIX changed, and a new version of the benchmark is published under a
different name by a new administrator using a different methodology.

2
make USD ISDAFIX submissions higher or lower for the purpose of benefitting positions priced
or valued against the benchmark, including swaption and interest rate swap futures positions. On
these occasions, Bank of America’s USD ISDAFIX submissions constituted false, misleading, or
knowingly inaccurate reports because they purported to reflect the Bank’s honest view of the true
costs of entering into a standard fixed-for-floating interest rate swap in particular tenors, but in
fact reflected traders’ desire to move USD ISDAFIX higher or lower in order to benefit the
Bank’s positions. These submissions were false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate because
they did not report where the Bank would itself bid or offer interest rate swaps to a dealer of
good credit absent a desire to manipulate USD ISDAFIX, but rather reflected prices that were
more favorable to the Bank’s specific positions.

In addition, on occasion, certain traders at Bank of America attempted to manipulate
USD ISDAFIX by bidding, offering, and executing transactions in targeted interest rate products,
including swap spreads and U.S. Treasuries, at or near the critical 11:00 a.m. fixing time, with
the intent to affect the reference rates and spreads captured by Swaps Broker that Swaps Broker
disseminated to panel banks, and thereby to affect the published USD ISDAFIX. On occasion,
in conjunction with Bank of America’s attempts to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by bidding,
offering, and executing transactions in targeted interest rate products, Bank of America also
attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by making false USD ISDAFIX submissions.

KK ok ok ok

In accepting Bank of America’s Offer, the Commission recognizes the Bank’s
cooperation during the investigation of this matter by the CFTC’s Division of Enforcement
(“Division”), which helped the Division undertake its investigation efficiently and effectively.
The Commission also recognizes that Bank of America commenced significant remedial action
to strengthen the internal controls and policies relating to all benchmarks, including USD
ISDAFIX.

B. Respondent

Bank of America, N.A. is a national banking association with its main office in
Charlotte, North Carolina, and offices in, among other places, New York City. It became
provisionally registered with the Commission as a swap dealer on December 31, 2012.

C. Facts
1. USD ISDAFIX Setting

ISDAFIX rates and spreads were benchmarks that indicated prevailing market rates for
“plain-vanilla” interest rate swaps.” The 11:00 a.m. USD ISDAFIX was set during the Relevant

 

* The term “swap” is defined in CEA Section 1a(47), 7 U.S.C. § 1a(47) (2012). Here, a “plain-vanilla” interest rate
swap is generally an exchange of fixed payments for floating payments, wherein one party to a swap pays a fixed
rate on a set notional amount (the party who “pays fixed” is said to have “bought” the swap, or is “long” the swap)
and the other party pays a floating rate generally tied to three-month LIBOR (the party who “receives fixed” is said
to have “sold” the swap, or is “short” the swap). The “maturity” or “tenor” of a swap refers to the number of years
over which counterparties exchange payments.
Period using a combination of swap spread trade data from Swaps Broker,’ U.S. Treasuries
electronic trade data from Swaps Broker, Eurodollar futures, and submissions from a panel of
swap dealer banks, including Bank of America.”

Swaps Broker’s medium-term USD swaps desk (“MTS Desk”) functioned much like a
traditional futures trading pit. Brokers on the desk sat (or stood) together and each serviced a
number of major swap dealer banks, to whom they were connected throughout the trading day by
direct phone lines and speaker boxes. The brokers communicated their clients’ bids and offers
by open outcry to the entire MTS Desk and all of the brokers simultaneously. Any client could
accept a bid or offer. Once a broker confirmed that a client was “hitting” a bid, “lifting” an offer,
or was otherwise “done” in a designated notional amount (either a minimum default amount or a
greater amount), the trade between the counterparties was executed and the counterparties
received a confirmation of the trade.

Swaps Broker published a live feed of transaction data for USD interest rate swap
spreads, swap rates, and U.S. Treasury yields and prices to an electronic screen, known as the
“19901 screen,” accessible through a subscription-based market news service. The 19901 screen
reflected the levels at which those products were trading through the MTS Desk (for swap
spreads and swap rates) and Swaps Broker’s proprietary electronic bond trading platform (for
U.S. Treasuries). The levels displayed on the 19901 screen for swap spreads were manually
controlled by an employee of Swaps Broker, known colloquially as the “screen guy” or “screen
operator,” who would toggle the levels up or down based on the swap spread trading activity that
occurred before him on the MTS Desk. The 19901 screen is a reference used widely throughout
the financial industry by swap dealer banks, hedge funds, asset managers, businesses, and other
participants in interest rate markets. During the Relevant Period, levels displayed on the 19901
screen at precisely 11:00 a.m. were critical because they were used to set USD ISDAFIX.

To set USD ISDAFIX rates for the 2-year through 30-year maturities, Swaps Broker first
generated reference rates and spreads from the snapshot of 11:00 a.m. screen prices, reflecting
either the last traded spread or the mid-point between the most recent executable bid and offer.
Swaps Broker’s reference rates, for all maturities except the 1-year, were the sum of the
reference spread and the 19901 screen’s U.S. Treasury yield in the corresponding maturity. To
generate the l-year reference rate (for which there was no associated swap spread), Swaps
Broker utilized a combination of Eurodollar futures yields (based on trading on CME’s Globex
platform) and broker “sentiment,” which was intended to reflect prevailing rates for 1-year swaps
based on trading though Swaps Broker’s short-term swaps desk.

Minutes after the 11:00 a.m. snapshot of the 19901 was taken, Swaps Broker distributed
its reference rates and spreads to a panel of fourteen or more contributing banks, which either

 

* An interest rate swap spread trade consists of a fixed-for-floating interest rate swap and an offsetting trade in U.S.
Treasuries of the same tenor, which allows a party to hedge part of the interest rate risk associated with the fixed-
for-floating swap. The difference in basis points between the U.S. Treasury yield and the swap rate constitutes the
“spread” quoted in a spread trade. The party who “receives fixed” in a swap and sells U.S. Treasuries to hedge is
“short” spreads or has “sold” spreads, while a party who “pays fixed” in a swap and buys Treasuries to hedge is
“long” spreads or has “bought” spreads.

° Prior to its acquisition by Bank of America, Merrill Lynch was also on the panel of swap dealer banks that made
ISDAFIX submissions.
accepted and submitted the reference rates and spreads as their own or submitted adjusted levels.
Each bank, including Bank of America, was expected to submit “the mean of where that dealer
would itself offer and bid a swap in the relevant maturity for a notional equivalent amount of US
$50 million or whatever amount is deemed market size in that currency for that tenor to an
acknowledged dealer of good credit in the swap market.” In making their submissions, banks
could change the prices for all rates and spreads across all maturities in their submissions; or
change any subset, including any single rate or spread; or change none at all and simply submit
the reference rates and spreads. Alternatively, a panel bank could make no submission at all.
After a quorum of contributing banks made their submissions, a calculation agent eliminated the
highest and lowest submissions (known as “topping and tailing”) and averaged the remaining
submissions. The submission and calculation process was generally completed in the half hour
following 11:00 a.m., after which the results were accessible to the public through a
subscription-based news service.

In practice, most panel banks, often including Bank of America, accepted Swaps
Broker’s reference rates and spreads as their default submissions. Thus, after “topping and
tailing,” Swaps Broker’s reference rates and spreads usually became the final published USD
ISDAFIX benchmarks. However, as noted below, on multiple occasions during the Relevant
Period, Bank of America submitted a rate or spread higher or lower than Swaps Broker’s
reference rates or spreads or traded at 11:00 a.m. on certain days that Bank of America had a
derivatives position settling against USD ISDAFIX in an attempt to benefit that derivatives
position.

2. Bank of America’s Role in USD ISDAFIX Setting

Throughout the Relevant Period, Bank of America was one of the panel banks that
submitted rates and spreads for the determination of USD ISDAFIX. Bank of America’s Interest
Rates Swaps Desk (“Swaps Desk”) employees made the Bank’s daily USD ISDAFIX
submissions. The Swaps Desk was a market-making desk that traded, among other products,
fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps. The Swaps Desk acted as counterparty to external clients
as well as internal Bank of America desks in a variety of interest rate swap transactions.

During the Relevant Period, Bank of America did not have specific internal controls or
procedures, written or otherwise, regarding how USD ISDAFIX submissions should be
determined or monitored. ISDAFIX submitters received no formal training on making ISDAFIX
submissions, and the Bank did not require submissions to be documented during the Relevant
Period.

3. Bank of America’s Positions with Exposure to USD ISDAFIX

As described in more detail below, Bank of America traders engaged in attempts to
manipulate USD ISDAFIX for two primary reasons: (a) to maximize profit (or minimize loss)
for the Bank’s Option Desk by increasing their payments from counterparties, or decreasing
payments to counterparties, in the cash settlement of swaptions; and (b) to maximize profit (or
minimize loss) for the Bank’s Swaps Desk by increasing their payments from counterparties, or

 

° See ISDAFIX, ISDA, https://web.archive.org/web/20140209180148/http:/www2.isda.org/
asset-classes/interest-rates-derivatives/isdafix/ (last accessed July 16, 2018).

5
decreasing payments to counterparties, in the cash settlement of interest rate swap futures. A
small movement of the benchmark higher or lower (e.g., one basis point or less) could result in
meaningful gain for Bank of America on its cash settlements. Attempts to move USD ISDAFIX
rates in Bank of America’s favor, if successful, would hurt the Bank’s counterparties to the cash
settlements, as well as any other market participants who had positions referencing USD
ISDAFIX on a given day that were directionally equivalent to Bank of America’s counterparties’
positions in the same maturity.

a. Swaption Cash Settlements

On occasion during the Relevant Period, traders on Bank of America’s Options Desk, in
coordination with the Swaps Desk, attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX in order to benefit
the Options Desk’s positions in so-called “European swaptions.” A European swaption is an
option to enter into a plain-vanilla fixed-for-floating interest rate swap, which must be exercised
at 11:00 a.m. on a specified “expiry” date in the future at a pre-agreed fixed “strike” rate. A
swaption can be exercised by “physical” delivery of the underlying swap or by cash settlement.
A swaption that expired “in-the-money” would usually physically settle. Swaption cash
settlements denominated in U.S. Dollars are typically calculated based on USD ISDAFIX rates
according to a formula which measures the difference between the relevant USD ISDAFIX rate
on the expiry date and the strike rate of the swaption. In any cash-settling swaption, the Options
Desk’s incentive to push the USD ISDAFIX higher or lower depended on (1) whether Bank of
America was the owner (buyer) or seller of the swaption and (2) whether the swaption conferred
the right to pay or receive the fixed rate in the underlying swap.

b. Swap Futures Cash Settlements

On occasion during the Relevant Period, the Swaps Desk also attempted to manipulate
USD ISDAFIX to benefit its swap futures positions by increasing payments to Bank of America
(or decreasing payments from Bank of America) during settlements.’ Bank of America regularly
transacted in swap futures contracts and routinely maintained net exposure to the settlement of
these contracts, which occurred on a quarterly basis. The final settlement price of each contract
was determined based on USD ISDAFIX in the relevant maturity on the contract’s last day of
trading. Under swap futures contract specifications, the value of the contract had an inverse
relationship to USD ISDAFIX: when Bank of America was long swap futures contracts, the
Bank would benefit from a lower USD ISDAFIX rate in the relevant maturity on the contract’s
last day of trading. Bank of America’s Swaps Desk typically held a net long or short position in
multiple swap futures maturities on the contracts’ settlement days, giving the Swaps Desk a
corresponding incentive to attempt to push USD ISDAFIX up or down in a direction that would
maximize the desk’s profits and minimize its losses.

4. Means Employed in Attempts To Manipulate USD ISDAFIX

Certain Bank of America options and/or swaps traders understood and employed two
primary means in their attempts to manipulate USD ISDAFIX rates:

 

’ During the Relevant Period, swap futures contracts were listed at and subject to the rules of the Chicago Board of
Trade (“CBOT”). Swap futures were traded through both “open outcry” and through CME Globex.

6
e First, by directing the relevant Bank of America Swaps Desk middle office
employee responsible for making USD ISDAFIX submissions (the “Submitter”)
to submit rates and spreads higher or lower than the Submitter otherwise would
submit, certain Bank of America traders attempted to affect the final published
USD ISDAFIX rates and spreads to benefit the Bank’s positions.

e Second, certain Bank of America traders bid, offered, and/or executed swap
spreads and/or U.S. Treasuries at or around 11:00 a.m. to affect rates on the 19901
screen and thereby increase or decrease Swaps Broker’s reference rates and
spreads and influence the final published USD ISDAFIX.

Whichever the means employed, the traders’ goal was the same—to move USD ISDAFIX in the
direction that favored Bank of America on specific trading positions at the expense of its
counterparties.

a. Bank of America’s False, Misleading, or Knowingly Inaccurate
Submissions

During the Relevant Period, Bank of America attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by
making false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate submissions to Swaps Broker concerning
swap rates and spreads.

On multiple occasions during the Relevant Period, Bank of America submitted a rate or
spread higher or lower than Swaps Broker’s reference rates or spreads. On these occasions,
certain traders directed the relevant Submitters to submit a rate or spread higher or lower than the
reference rate or spread disseminated by Swaps Broker to panel banks. Certain traders made
requests to change particular submissions by means including electronic communications
requesting the Submitter to change the Bank’s submission for a particular tenor or tenors. The
Submitters typically did not deviate from the reference rates and spreads provided by Swaps
Broker unless they were specifically directed to do so for a particular tenor by a trader. The
changes were not made to reflect the mean of where Bank of America would itself bid or offer
the swap in the relevant maturity, but rather were made to benefit certain swaption or swap
futures positions held by the Bank.

For instance, on one quarterly expiration date for swap futures contracts in 2011, Bank of
America had a long position in 5-year, 7-year, 10-year, and 30-year swap futures. A few minutes
before 11:00 a.m., a trader on the Bank of America Swaps Desk advised the Submitter via
Bloomberg message that he was “gonna need 5y7y10y and 30y rates and spreads at 1lam,”
noting that he “want[ed] them low.” The Submitter asked the trader if he had “any [levels] in
mind.” The trader responded that he did “not yet” know what levels he wanted—reflecting that
his desire for “low” USD ISDAFIX rates and spreads was not based on an honest view of the
swap spreads market at a particular level but rather a desire to benefit the Bank’s positions.

After the reference rates were published to Bank of America and the other panel banks, the trader
instructed the Submitter to “put each of them lower by like 2/10,” stating that changing Bank of
America’s submission in an attempt to affect where USD ISDAFIX was ultimately published
was “worth a shot.” The Submitter complied with the trader’s request and submitted rates and
spreads 0.25 lower for each of the four tenors.
b. Bank of America’s Improper Trading Conduct

In addition to making false submissions in an effort to influence the final setting of USD
ISDAFIX benchmarks, on multiple occasions certain traders at Bank of America attempted to
manipulate USD ISDAFIX by bidding, offering, or trading swap spreads and U.S. Treasuries at
and around Swaps Broker’s 11:00 a.m. snapshot, in a manner designed to move USD ISDAFIX
rates in a direction that would benefit the Bank.*

For instance, on one quarterly expiration date for swap futures contracts in 2009, Bank of
America had a position in multiple swap futures tenors, including a short position in 5-year swap
futures. Just prior to 11:00 a.m., multiple traders on the Bank’s Swaps Desk traded on Swaps
Broker’s proprietary electronic bond trading platform, in each tenor trading Treasuries in the
direction that would benefit the Bank’s expiring swap futures positions, including selling 5-year
Treasuries, while at the same time a Swaps Desk trader was buying 5-year swap spreads through
Swaps Broker’s MTS Desk.

After USD ISDAFIX was published that day, a Swaps Desk middle office employee—
who later served as a Submitter for the Bank—asked a Swaps Desk trader to explain “how all
those 5y spread [1.e., swap spread] trades we did affected the closing for the swap future . . . if
that’s what was going on around 11.” The trader responded, “yeah, that’s the [Swaps Broker]
llam fixing,” confirming that “swap futures settle off that” and explaining that “the 11am rate is
determined by [Swaps Broker] treasury price and [Swaps Broker] spread at 1lam.” The middle
office employee then asked: “so by paying [1.e., buying] all those 5y spreads were we trying to
push the price in a certain direction or just for our position[?]” The trader responded that the
answer was “both.” He explained: “at 11am we had to sell 3B in 5y notes [1.e., Treasuries]. . .
sO we got short spreads . . . we needed to buy spreads . . . so buying them before and pushing the
rate higher basically means we rcv a higher rate at the fixing ... we wanted the highest rate
possible at llam . . . assuming we have all or most of it hedged before that.” After explaining
this sequence of trading, the trader then asked the middle office employee if he had “any idea
what you think that’s worth to us?” and then estimated that the Swaps Desk had profited about
$4 million through this attempted manipulation. An email circulated to Swaps Desk employees
later that day, discussing daily profit and loss, reported “DAYTRADES + $4M” and referenced
the “large swap future expiry at 1lam.”

On at least one occasion, the Swaps Desk’s attempted manipulation by trading was the
result of collaboration with the Options Desk, in which options traders put pressure on the Swaps
Desk to manipulate for the benefit of a swaptions position. In August 2011, prior to 11:00 a.m.,
an Options Desk trader learned that a swaption counterparty was asking for a cash settlement
with Bank of America, and discussed with a Swaps Desk trader how that trader might attempt to

 

* Bank of America traders referred to trades that they made around 11:00 a.m. for risk management purposes as
hedging. When Bank of America’s derivative products cash-settled, changes in Bank of America desks’ risk
positions could potentially cause traders to seek hedging trades, depending on a variety of factors, including the risk
profile of other positions and whether the desk wanted to keep any resulting risk. Irrespective of whether the Bank
of America traders had an interest in hedging, the traders engaged in attempted manipulation when they placed bids
and offers or executed trades around 11:00 a.m. with the improper intent to move the USD ISDAFIX rate in Bank of
America’s favor.
manipulate USD ISDAFIX in the 1-year tenor to benefit the Bank’s position in the cash
settlement. The options trader told the swaps trader “I have no risk” and went on to discuss how
the Bank might nonetheless bid and offer 1-year swaps in order to affect USD ISDAFIX in that
maturity, telling the swaps trader, “Ljust want isda fix to be set at 42.5.” The swaps trader
assured the options trader that “we are trying to get it to print 42.5 for you,” and the Swaps Desk
did in fact buy 1-year swap spreads at 42.5 very close to 11:00 a.m. with the objective of getting
a 42.5 print on 1-year USD ISDAFIX. However, the Bank’s attempted manipulation did not
succeed, as Swaps Broker informed the Swaps Desk shortly after 11:00 a.m. that 1-year USD
ISDAFIX would print at 42.4. The swaps trader who had promised to attempt to manipulate told
the options trader that the Swaps Desk was “fighting” the 42.4 print. Another swaps trader told
Swaps Broker that he was getting “all kinds of gr[ie]f here” because “our options boys were
stan[|ding there w[h]en we traded”; after the Bank’s protests failed to change the outcome and
USD ISDAFIX was published at the lower rate, the trader attempted to explain what happened to
the “options boss.”

On at least one occasion, the Swaps Desk also sought to pressure one of its brokers at
Swaps Broker to manipulate USD ISDAFIX to benefit its own positions in expiring swap
futures. On one quarterly expiration date for swap futures contracts in 2010, Bank of America
had a significant long position in 5-year swap futures, and attempted to benefit that position by
selling down swaps spreads through Swaps Broker’s MTS Desk in an attempt to push down
USD ISDAFIX in the 5-year tenor. The head trader at Bank of America’s Swaps Desk
successfully sold 5-year swap spreads at 21 a few seconds before 11:00 a.m. in an attempt to get
a 21 print, but the Swaps Desk broker trading on the head trader’s behalf failed to “give a size or
say sell on,” and another bank was able to bid the price back up to 21.25 just before 11:00. After
USD ISDAFIX printed at 21.25, the head trader was so angry at his broker for failing to get a
lower print that the broker went back and listened to the audio recording of his trading activity
around 11:00 a.m. in an effort to explain to the trader what had gone wrong. The broker told
Bank of America’s head trader that another bank “said mine at 21.25... but that happened at
10.59 and 54 seconds . . . immediately I knew what was up and had to get it down quickly at
all costs.” Significantly, on this same date the Swaps Desk also attempted to manipulate USD
ISDAFIX in the same tenor through false submissions: shortly after 10:00 a.m., a junior Swaps
Desk trader notified the Submitter that he would need to log in and make the Bank’s USD
ISDAFIX submission that morning because they “need it for today with the swap fut[ure]
exp[iry],” and in fact the Bank submitted 5-year USD ISDAFIX rates at 20.75—even lower than
the price at which the head trader had sought to sell in order get the print.

IV.

LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Jurisdiction

As set forth below, Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b,
13(a)(2) (2012), have long prohibited attempted manipulation of the prices of, or false reporting
in regard to, any commodity in interstate commerce or for future delivery on or subject to the
rules of any registered entity. An interest rate benchmark, such as USD ISDAFIX, is a
commodity, see CEA § la(QY), (19), 7 U.S.C. § 1aQ9), (19) (2012), and therefore may be subject
to illegal attempted manipulation, whatever the manipulative means may be, or false reporting.

Here, Bank of America’s attempted manipulation is also proscribed by the Act for the
separate reason that the conduct involved swaps executed or traded on a Swaps Broker desk that
operated in practice as a “trading facility” under the Act. See CEA § 1a(51), 7 U.S.C. § 1a(51)
(2012) (defining trading facility); see also former CEA § 2(d)(1)(B), 2(g)(3), 7 U.S.C.

§ 2(d)(1)(B), 2(g)(3) (2006; repealed 2011) (limiting jurisdictional exclusions to agreements,
contracts, or transactions not executed or traded on a trading facility).

Lastly, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of
2010 (“Dodd-Frank Act’), the Commission also has authority to initiate proceedings and impose
sanctions for a broader range of manipulative conduct and false reporting, including in
connection with any swap. See CEA §§ 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3), 6(d), 9(a)(2); 17 C.F.R. 8§
180.1, 180.2 (2018). The Relevant Period encompasses conduct that occurred after the passage
and effective date of the Dodd-Frank Act.

B. Respondent Attempted To Manipulate USD ISDAFIX

Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes it unlawful for “[a]ny person to manipulate or attempt to
manipulate the price of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or
subject to the rules of any registered entity.” With respect to conduct on or after July 16, 2011,
amended Section 9(a)(2) of the Act also makes it unlawful to manipulate or attempt to
manipulate the price of “any swap.”

For conduct prior to August 15, 2011, former Section 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
$$ 9, 13b (2006), authorize the Commission to serve a complaint and impose, among other
things, civil monetary penalties and cease and desist orders if the Commission “has reason to
believe that any person .. . has manipulated or attempted to manipulate the market price of any
commodity, in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any
registered entity, . .. or otherwise is violating or has violated any of the provisions of [the] Act.”

For conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011, the Commission is authorized to serve
a complaint and impose penalties and orders with regard to attempted manipulation in violations
of the broader amended provisions of Section 6(c)(1) and 6(c)(3) of the Act and the Regulations
implementing those provisions. See CEA §8§ 6(c)(4)(A), 6(d).

Section 6(c)(1) and 6(c)(1)(A) of the Act and Regulation 180.1 prohibit the use or
attempted use of any manipulative device, including false reporting, in connection with any swap
or contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery, and
Regulation 180.1(a) makes it:

unlawful ..., directly or indirectly, in connection with any swap,
or contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or
contract for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any
registered entity, to... (1) [uJse... or attempt to use .. . any
manipulative device; (2) [mJake, or attempt to make, any untrue or
misleading statement of a material fact or to omit to state a

10
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made not
untrue or misleading; (3) [e]ngage, or attempt to engage, in any
act, practice, or course of business, which operates or would
operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person; or, (4) [d]eliver or
cause to be delivered, or attempt to deliver or cause to be
delivered, for transmission through the mails or interstate
commerce, ... a false or misleading or inaccurate report
concerning . . . market information or conditions that affect or tend
to affect the price of any commodity in interstate commerce.

Section 6(c)(3) of the Act prohibits the attempted manipulation of the price of any
commodity in interstate commerce, and Regulation 180.2 makes it “unlawful .. . directly or
indirectly, to... attempt to manipulate the price of any swap, or of any commodity in interstate
commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity.”

To prove attempted manipulation under Sections 9(a)(2) and 6(c)(3) of the Act and
Commission Regulation 180.2, the following two elements are required: (1) an intent to affect
market price, and (2) an overt act in furtherance of that intent. See In re Hohenberg Bros. Co.,
CFTC No. 75-4, 1977 WL 13562, at *7 (Feb. 18, 1977). To prove the intent element of
attempted manipulation, the respondent must have “acted (or failed to act) with the purpose or
conscious object of causing or effecting a price or price trend in the market that did not reflect
the legitimate forces of supply and demand.” Jn re Ind. Farm Bureau Coop. Ass’n, CFTC No.
75-14, 1982 WL 30249, at *7 (Dec. 17, 1982). “[W]hile knowledge of relevant market
conditions is probative of intent, it is not necessary to prove that the accused knew to any
particular degree of certainty that his actions would create an artificial price. /tis enough to
present evidence from which it may reasonably be inferred that the accused ‘consciously
desire[d] that result, whatever the likelihood of that result happening from his conduct.’” Id.
(emphasis added) (quoting United States v. U.S. Gypsum Co., 438 U.S. 442, 445 (1978)). A
profit motive may also be evidence of intent, although profit motive is not a necessary element of
an attempted manipulation. See In re DiPlacido, CFTC No. 01-23, 2008 WL 4831204, at *29
(Nov. 5, 2008) (citing In re Hohenberg Bros. Co., 1977 WL 13562, at *8), aff’d sub. nom.
DiPlacido v. CFTC, 364 F. App’x 657 (2d Cir. 2009). It is also not necessary that there be an
actual effect on price. See CFTC v. Amaranth Advisors, L.L.C., 554 F. Supp. 2d 523, 533
(S.D.N.Y. 2008).

1. Respondent Attempted To Manipulate USD ISDAFIX Through False,
Misleading, or Knowingly Inaccurate Submissions

As evidenced by communications among Bank of America employees and with others, as
well as by the Bank’s USD ISDAFIX submissions themselves, certain Bank of America traders
specifically intended to affect the rate at which USD ISDAFIX was set by making false,
misleading, or knowingly inaccurate submissions to Swaps Broker for inclusion in the
calculation of the daily rates. During the Relevant Period, Bank of America submitted to Swaps
Broker market information—specifically, rates that were supposed to reflect the mean of where
the Bank would itself offer and bid a USD denominated swap in the relevant maturity to an
acknowledged dealer of good credit—that was used as part of the process for determining the
daily USD ISDAFIX rate for the various maturities. However, rather than submitting rates and

11
spreads that reflected the Bank’s honest view of the true costs of entering into a standard USD
interest-rate swap in particular maturities, Bank of America knowingly made submissions with
the intent to move USD ISDAFIX rates higher or lower in order to benefit the Bank’s trading
positions. Through its false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate submissions, Bank of America
attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX for numerous tenors.

The Bank of America traders’ requests for certain rates to be submitted which would
benefit their trading positions, and the submissions resulting from those requests, constituted
overt acts in furtherance of the traders’ intent to affect USD ISDAFIX. By doing so, the traders
engaged in acts of attempted manipulation in violations of Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§13(a)(2) (2012); Section 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b (2006), for conduct
occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and Section 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b (2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a),
180.2 (2018), for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011.

2. Respondent Attempted To Manipulate USD ISDAFIX
Through Improper Trading Conduct

As evidenced by the communications among certain Bank of America employees and
between certain Bank employees and their brokers, as well as certain trading conduct, certain
Bank of America traders specifically intended to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by placing bids or
offers or executing trades in the moments leading into 11:00 a.m. designed in a manner,
including timing and pricing, to increase or decrease the price level of swap spreads and/or U.S.
Treasuries at 11:00 a.m., with the intent to affect levels reported on the 19901 screen and USD
ISDAFIX fixings. Moreover, the evidence reflects that certain traders intended such trading
conduct to affect the fixings in order to benefit Bank of America’s trading positions against its
counterparties.

The Bank of America traders’ bids, offers, and executed trades in the moments leading
into 11:00 a.m., which were intended to manipulate USD ISDAFIX, as well as the traders’
communications with each other and with their Swaps Broker brokers to plan and execute this
trading conduct, constituted overt acts in furtherance of their intent to manipulate USD
ISDAFIX. By doing so, the traders engaged in acts of attempted manipulation in violations of
Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012); Section 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
$$ 9, 13b (2006), for conduct occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and Section 6(c)(1),
6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 91), 933), 13b (2012), and Regulations
180.1(a) and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a), 180.2 (2018), for conduct occurring on or after
August 15, 2011.

C. Respondent Made False, Misleading, or Knowingly Inaccurate Reports
Concerning USD ISDAFIX in violations of Section 9(a)(2) of the Act

In addition to the prohibition on attempted manipulation contained in Section 9(a)(2) of
the Act, that provision also makes it unlawful for any person “knowingly to deliver or cause to
be delivered for transmission through the mails or interstate commerce by telegraph, telephone,
wireless, or other means of communication false or misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports
concerning crop or market information or conditions that affect or tend to affect the price of any

12
commodity in interstate commerce.” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012); see also United States v.
Brooks, 681 F.3d 678, 703-05 (5th Cir. 2012) (affirming the district court’s conviction of
defendants for false reporting of natural gas trades in violations of the Act and finding that “it is
‘clear beyond a reasonable doubt that a rational jury’ would have found that the Defendants-
Appellants had knowledge that their reports affected or tended to affect the price of natural
gas”); United States v. Valencia, 394 F.3d 352, 354-57 (Sth Cir. 2004) (reversing and remanding
to the district court and holding that the knowledge requirement of the reporting prong of

§ 9(a)(2) applies to the false or misleading character of the reports, as well as to delivery and
inaccuracy); CFTC v. Johnson, 408 F. Supp. 2d 259, 267 (S.D. Tex. 2005) (finding that the facts
alleged in the CFTC’s complaint adequately stated a claim against the defendants for the delivery
of knowingly inaccurate information).

During the Relevant Period, Bank of America, through electronic and telephonic
transmission of information to Swaps Broker, on multiple occasions knowingly delivered or
caused to be delivered the Bank’s USD ISDAFIX submissions through the mails or interstate
commerce. The Bank’s submissions were also delivered through the mails or interstate
commerce through daily dissemination and publication globally, including throughout the United
States, of the official published rates for USD ISDAFIX, as determined by averaging the
submissions of Bank of America and other panel banks after “topping and tailing.” Data on
submissions themselves was also disseminated. Bank of America’s daily USD ISDAFIX
submissions contained market information concerning the mean of where the Bank would itself
offer and bid a swap in the relevant maturity to an acknowledged dealer of good credit in the
swap market absent intent to manipulate USD ISDAFIX. Such market information affected or
tended to affect the prices of commodities in interstate commerce, including the daily fixing rates
for USD ISDAFIX, as well as the on-exchange interest rate swap futures and other financial
instruments which relied upon those rates.

During the Relevant Period, Bank of America’s USD ISDAFIX submissions on multiple
occasions constituted false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate reports because they purported
to reflect the Bank’s honest view of the true costs of entering into a standard fixed-for-floating
interest rate swap in particular tenors, but in fact on multiple occasions reflected traders’ desire
to move USD ISDAFIX higher or lower in order to benefit their positions.

By using these impermissible factors in making the Bank’s USD ISDAFIX submissions
and without disclosing that it based its submissions on these impermissible factors, Bank of
America conveyed false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate information that the rates it
submitted were based on the prices at which the Bank would offer and bid swaps to an
acknowledged dealer of good credit in the swaps market absent intent to manipulate USD
ISDAFIX. Moreover, certain Bank of America employees knew that the Bank’s USD ISDAFIX
submissions contained false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate information. By such conduct,
Respondent violated Section 9(a)(2) of the Act.

D. Respondent Is Liable for the Acts of Its Agents

Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2, 17
C.F.R. § 1.2 (2018), provide that “[t]he act, omission, or failure of any official, agent, or other
person acting for any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust within the scope

13
of his employment or office shall be deemed the act, omission, or failure of such individual,
association, partnership, corporation, or trust.” Pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act and
Regulation 1.2, strict liability is imposed on principals for the actions of their agents. See, e.g.,
Dohmen-Ramirez & Wellington Advisory, Inc. v. CFTC, 837 F.2d 847, 857-58 (9th Cir. 1988);
Rosenthal & Co. v. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986); CFTC v. Byrnes, 58 F. Supp. 3d
319, 324 (S.D.N.Y. 2014).

Bank of America is liable for the acts, omissions, and failures of any traders, managers,
and Submitters who acted as its employees and/or agents in the conduct described above.
Accordingly, as set forth above, Respondent violated Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§ 13(a)(2) (2012); Section 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b (2006), for conduct
occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and Section 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b (2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a),
180.2 (2018), for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011.

V.
FINDINGS OF violations

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Section 9(a)(2)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012); Section 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b
(2006), for conduct occurring prior to August 15, 2011; and Section 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3)
and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(3), 13b (2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2, 17
C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a), 180.2 (2018), for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011.

VI.

OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent, without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, have
submitted the Offer in which it:

A. Acknowledges service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in
this Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the
Commission based on violations of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
1. the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. a hearing;
3. all post-hearing procedures;
4. judicial review by any court;

14
5. any and all objections to the participation by any member of the
Commission’s staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice
Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules
promulgated by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2018), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding;

7. any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. IT,
§§ 201-53, 110 Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C.
§ 2412 and in scattered sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or
arising from, this proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding
or the entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary
penalty or any other relief;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely
of the findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the
Offer; and

Requests, for the reasons set forth in Respondent’s letter dated July 19, 2018
(“Request Letter”), that the Commission advise that, under the circumstances,
disqualification under Rule 262(a) of Regulation A and Rule 506(d)(1) of
Regulation D of the Securities & Exchange Commission (“SEC”), 17 C.F.R.
§§ 230.262(a), 230.506(d)(1) (2018), should not arise as a consequence of this
Order;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order
that:

1. makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Section
9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012); Section 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b (2006), for conduct occurring prior to August 15,
2011; and Section 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3) and 6(d) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§§ 9(1), 93), 13b (2012), and Regulations 180.1 (a) and 180.2, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 180.1(a), 180.2 (2018), for conduct occurring on or after August 15,

2011;

2. orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(1),
6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, and Regulations 180.1(a)
and 180.2;

3. orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of thirty

million U.S. dollars ($30,000,000) plus post-judgment interest;

15
orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the
conditions and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in
Part VII of this Order; and

advises that, under the circumstances, disqualification under Rule 262(a)
of Regulation A and Rule 506(d)(1) of Regulation D of the SEC should
not arise as a consequence of this Order; and

G. Represents that it has already undertaken certain steps intended to make
reasonable efforts to ensure the integrity of interest-rate swap benchmarks,
including, but not limited to, the following:

1.

Respondent has conducted a global review of risks and best practices
relating to its benchmark activities and the policies, procedures, and
controls governing its benchmark activities, including USD ISDAFIX and
its successor benchmark, and has reaffirmed its prohibition on
manipulation and attempted manipulation of benchmark rates specifically
(in addition to existing broad prohibitions on market manipulation); and

Respondent has enhanced its policies, procedures, and controls relating to
its benchmark activities, including in relation to USD ISDAFIX and its
successor benchmark, as follows:

a. Enhanced policies and procedures providing additional guidance
regarding activities that can affect a benchmark directly or
indirectly, including benchmark submissions, and the identification
and mitigation of potential conflicts of interest relating to Bank of
America’s trading in products affected by the relevant benchmark;

b. Implementation of recordkeeping requirements for benchmark
activities, including the methodologies for establishing
submissions, materials utilized in making submissions, and any
requests to modify a pre-populated value;

C. Enhanced supervisory oversight of personnel that make benchmark
submissions;
d. Enhanced routine training of all traders, supervisors, and other

personnel who are involved in the fixing of any benchmark, and
periodic audit of benchmark submissions;

e. Measures designed to enhance electronic communications
surveillance, including measures designed to enhance the detection
of improper communications concerning benchmarks;

f. Enhanced monitoring and surveillance systems designed to detect
potential manipulation of benchmark rates, including interest-rate
swap benchmarks, through trading;

16
g. Periodic and annual review of benchmark inventories, including
those categorized as submission benchmarks, as well as monthly
attestations by trading supervisors regarding compliance with
established policies; and

h. Enhanced overall benchmark control framework and governance,
including developing appropriate escalation procedures for both
internal and external conduct relating to benchmarks, and
mandating periodic review.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VIL.

ORDER

Accordingly, [IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A),
6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(11)(A), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2)
(2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a), 180.2 (2018).

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty of thirty million U.S. dollars
($30,000,000), within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “CMP
Obligation”). If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of the
date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP
Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by
using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant
to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by
electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s
check, or bank money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic
funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax

9-AMC-AR-CFTC @ faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact
Marie Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment
instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall

17
accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the
Respondent and the name and docket number of this proceeding. Respondent
shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment
to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three
Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following
undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. REMEDIATION

As set forth above in Section VI, paragraph G, Respondent represents that it has
already undertaken and continues to undertake extensive remedial measures to
implement and strengthen its internal controls and procedures relating to the
fixing of interest-rate swaps benchmarks and related supervision of its swaps and
options desks. With respect to its remediation efforts to the extent not already
undertaken, Respondent undertakes that:

a. The Bank will implement and improve its internal controls and
procedures in a manner reasonably designed to ensure the
integrity of the fixing of any interest-rate swap benchmark,
including measures to identify and address internal or external
conflicts of interest;

b. The Bank’s remediation improvements will include internal
controls and procedures relating to:

1. measures designed to enhance the detection and deterrence
of improper communications concerning interest-rate swap
benchmarks, including the form and manner in which
communications may occur;

2. monitoring systems designed to enhance the detection and
deterrence of trading or other conduct potentially intended
to manipulate directly or indirectly swap rates, including
benchmarks based on interest-rate swaps;

3. periodic audits, at least annually, of the Bank’s
participation in the fixing of any benchmark based on
interest-rate swaps;

4. supervision of trading desks that participate in the fixing of
any benchmark based on interest-rate swaps;

5. supervision of trading desk conduct that relates to any
interest-rate swap benchmark;

18
6. routine and on-going training of all traders, supervisors and
others who are involved in the fixing of any benchmark
based on interest-rate swaps;

7. routine and on-going training of all trading desk personnel
relating to the trading of any product that references a
benchmark based on interest-rate swaps;

8. processes for the periodic but routine review of written and
oral communications of any traders, supervisors and others
who are involved in the fixing of any benchmark based on
interest-rate swaps with the review being documented and
documentation being maintained for a period of three years;
and

9. continuing to implement a system for reporting, handling
and investigating any suspected misconduct or
questionable, unusual or unlawful activity relating to the
fixing of any benchmark based on interest-rate swaps with
escalation to compliance and legal, and with reporting of
material matters to the executive management of the Bank
and the Commission, as appropriate; the Bank shall
maintain the record basis of the handling of each such
matter for a period of three years.

Within 120 days of the entry of this Order, the Bank shall make a
report to the Commission, through the Division, concerning its
remediation efforts prior to and since the entry of this Order.
Within 365 days of the entry of this Order, the Bank shall submit
a report to the Commission, through the Division, explaining how
it has complied with the undertakings set forth herein. The report
shall contain a certification from a representative of the Bank’s
Executive Management, after consultation with the Bank’s chief
compliance officer(s), that the Bank has complied with the
undertakings set forth above, and that it has established policies,

procedures, and controls to satisfy the undertakings set forth in the
Order.

COOPERATION WITH THE COMMISSION

In this action, and in any investigation or other action instituted by the
Commission related to the subject matter of this action, Respondent shall
cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission, including the Division.
As part of such cooperation, Respondent agrees to do the following, for a period
of three (3) years from the date of the entry of this Order, or until all related
investigations and litigations in which the Commission, including the Division, is

19
a party, are concluded, including through the appellate review process, whichever
period is longer:

a. Preserve all records relating to the subject matter of this
proceeding, including, but not limited to, audio files, electronic
mail, other documented communications, and trading records;

b. Comply fully, promptly, completely, and truthfully with all
inquiries and requests for non-privileged information or

documents;

C. Provide authentication of documents and other evidentiary
material;

d. Provide copies of non-privileged documents within the Bank’s

possession, custody, or control;

e. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, make best efforts to
produce any current (as of the time of the request) officer, director,
employee, or agent of the Bank, regardless of the individual’s
location, and at such location that minimizes Commission travel
expenditures, to provide assistance at any trial, proceeding, or
Commission investigation related to the subject matter of this
proceeding, including, but not limited to, requests for testimony,
depositions, and/or interviews, and to encourage them to testify
completely and truthfully in any such proceeding, trial, or
investigation; and

f. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, make its best efforts to
assist in locating and contacting any prior (as of the time of the
request) officer, director, employee, or agent of the Bank.

Respondent also agrees that it will not undertake any act that would limit its
ability to cooperate fully with the Commission. The Bank will designate an agent
located in the United States of America to receive all requests for information
pursuant to these Undertakings, and shall provide notice regarding the identity of
such Agent to the Division upon entry of this Order. Should the Bank seek to
change the designated agent to receive such requests, notice of such intention
shall be given to the Division fourteen (14) days before it occurs. Any person
designated to receive such request shall be located in the United States of
America.

3. PROHIBITED OR CONFLICTING UNDERTAKINGS

Should the Undertakings herein be prohibited by, or be contrary to, the provisions
of any obligations imposed on Respondent by any presently existing, or
hereinafter enacted or promulgated laws, rules, regulations, or regulatory
mandates, then Respondent shall promptly transmit notice to the Commission

20
(through the Division) of such prohibition or conflict, and shall meet and confer in
good faith with the Commission (through the Division) to reach an agreement
regarding possible modifications to the Undertakings herein sufficient to resolve
such inconsistent obligations. In the interim, Respondent will abide by the
obligations imposed by the laws, rules, regulations, and regulatory mandates.
Nothing in these Undertakings shall limit, restrict or narrow any obligations
pursuant to the Act or the Commission’s Regulations promulgated thereunder,
including, but not limited to, Regulations 1.31 and 1.35, 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31, 1.35
(2018), in effect now or in the future.

4. PUBLIC STATEMENTS

Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and assigns, agents, or
employees under its authority or control shall take any action or make any public
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order
or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondent’s:
(1) testimonial obligations, or (11) right to take positions in other proceedings to
which the Commission is not a party. Respondent and its successors and assigns
shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or
employees under its authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement.

5. PARTIAL SATISFACTION

Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the Commission of
partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of
its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

D. Based on the nature of the violations; the findings made, and the sanctions,
conditions, and undertakings imposed in the Order; and the facts and
representations in the Bank’s Request Letter, the Commission advises’ that, under
the circumstances, disqualification under Rule 262(a) of Regulation A and Rule
506(d)(1) of Regulation D of the SEC, 17 C.F.R. §§ 230.262(a), 230.506(d)(1)
(2018), should not arise as a consequence of this Order.’°

 

” Rule 506(d)(1)(iii)(B) disqualifies an issuer from relying on the private offering exemptions provided for in Rule
506 if they or certain related parties are “subject to a final order of . . . [inter alia] the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission . . . that: . . . [c]onstitutes a final order based on a violations of any law or regulation that
prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct.” Rule 506(d)(2)(i11), however, provides that
disqualification “shall not apply” 1f the CFTC “advises in writing” that disqualification under Rule 506(d)(1)
“should not arise as a consequence of such order.” See also 17 C.F.R. §§ 262(a)(3)(i1), (b)(3) (parallel provisions
under Regulation A); SEC, Exemptions to Facilitate Intrastate and Regional Securities Offerings, 81 Fed. Reg.
83,494, 83,545 (Nov. 21, 2016) (stating that disqualification under Rule 504 arises “absent a waiver or other
exception provided in Rule 506(d)’).

' Tn providing this advice, the Commission considered factors similar to those considered by the SEC when it issues
waivers of disqualification under Regulation A and Regulation D. The SEC grants waivers where an applicant has

21
The Commission notes that if the facts are different from those represented, or
Bank of America fails to comply with the terms of the Order, the Commission
may, in its discretion, revisit its advice that disqualification should not arise. The
Commission reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to withdraw or otherwise
revoke or further condition its advice under those circumstances.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

      

Christopher J. Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: September 19, 2018

 

shown “good cause and ... if the [SEC] determines that it is not necessary under the circumstances that an
exemption be denied,” §§ 17 C.F.R. 230.262(b)(2), 230.506(d)(2)(ii), based on its analysis of how the identified
misconduct bears on the applicant’s fitness to participate in offerings exempted under Regulation A and Regulation
D. See SEC, Div. of Corp. Fin., Waivers of Disqualification Under Regulation A and Rules 505 and 506 of
Regulation D, https://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/guidance/disqualification-waivers.shtml: SEC, Div. of Corp.
Fin., Rule 504 of Regulation D:; A Small Entity Compliance Guide for Issuers,
https://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/guidance/rule504-issuer-small-entity-compliance.html. The SEC considers
the following primary factors in determining whether to grant a waiver request: (i) the nature of the violations and
whether it involved the offer or sale of securities; (ii) whether the violations required scienter; (iii) who was
responsible for the misconduct; (iv) what was the duration of the misconduct; (v) what remedial steps have been
taken; and (vi) the impact on the party seeking a waiver and third parties ifa waiver is denied. Respondent’s
Request Letter addressed these factors in the context of this Order.

The Commission considers these factors in the context of the markets it regulates, and also takes into account
whether it determined that a statutory disqualification under the Act should arise solely based on the misconduct
found herein and leading to disqualification under Regulation A and Regulation D. The Commission is guided by
waivers granted by the SEC in prior cases involving similar facts and circumstances. See, e.g., In re JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., Securities Act Release No. 9993, 2015 WL 9256636 (Dec. 18, 2015) (SEC order determining
that good cause had been shown that it was not necessary to deny reliance on the exemption under Rule 506 of
Regulation D, where disqualification had been triggered by a CFTC order relating to JEMCB’s failure to adequately
disclose certain conflicts of interest to clients); /n re UBS AG, Securities Act Release No. 9787, 2015 WL 2395516
(May 20, 2015) (SEC order determining that good cause had been shown that it was not necessary to deny reliance
on the exemption under Rule 506, where disqualification had been triggered by a criminal guilty plea relating to FX
benchmark manipulation and noting the entry of parallel CFTC orders); /n re Barclays PLC, Securities Act Release
No. 9786, 2015 WL 2395515 (May 20, 2015) (SEC order determining that good cause had been shown that it was
not necessary to deny reliance on the exemption under Rule 506 where disqualification had been triggered by a
CFTC order relating to FX benchmark and ISDAFIX manipulation); see also, e.g., Piper Jaffray & Co., SEC No-
Action Letter, 2015 WL 4451053 (July 20, 2015) (SEC no-action letter determining that good cause had been shown
that it was not necessary to deny reliance on the exemptions under Regulation A and Rule 506 of Regulation D,
where disqualification had been triggered by an SEC order, and applying the same factors to consideration of waiver
for both exemptions).

22
