Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Daimler AG With Global Bribery

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2010-51

Washington, D.C., April 1, 2010 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today announced a settlement with Daimler AG for violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), alleging that the Stuttgart, Germany-based
automobile manufacturer engaged in a repeated and systematic practice of
paying bribes to foreign government officials to secure business in Asia,
Africa, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.

 

Additional Materials
» SEC Complaint

 

Daimler agreed to pay $91.4 million in disgorgement to settle the SEC's
charges and pay $93.6 million in fines to settle charges in separate criminal
proceedings announced today by the U.S. Department of Justice.

The SEC alleges that Daimler paid at least $56 million in improper payments
over a period of more than 10 years. The payments involved more than 200
transactions in at least 22 countries. Daimler earned $1.9 billion in revenue
and at least $90 million in illegal profits through these tainted sales
transactions, which involved at least 6,300 commercial vehicles and 500
passenger cars. Daimler also paid kickbacks to Iragi ministries in connection
with direct and indirect sales of motor vehicles and spare parts under the
United Nations Oil for Food Program.

"It is no exaggeration to describe corruption and bribe-paying at Daimler as a
standard business practice," said Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC's
Division of Enforcement. "The financial and reputational costs incurred by
Daimler as a result are a lesson that should be studied closely by all
companies."

Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief of the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit,
added, "The bribery was so pervasive in Daimler's decentralized corporate
structure that it extended outside of the sales organization to internal audit,
legal, and finance departments. These departments should have caught and
stopped the illegal sales practices, but instead they permitted or were directly
involved in the company's bribery practices."

The SEC's complaint, filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia,
alleges that Daimler used bribes to further government sales in such
countries as Russia, China, Vietnam, Nigeria, Hungary, Latvia, Croatia, and
Bosnia. Among other means, Daimler used dozens of ledger accounts, known
internally as "interne Fremdkonten" or "internal third party accounts" to
maintain credit balances for the benefit of government officials. These credit
balances were controlled by Daimler subsidiaries or outside third parties,
including foreign government officials or Daimler's dealers, distributors or
other agents who were at times used as intermediaries to make payments to
foreign government officials. The accounts were funded through several
bogus pricing mechanisms, such as "price surcharges," "price inclusions," or
excessive commissions. Daimler also used artificial discounts or rebates on
sales contracts to effectuate bribes. In those instances, all or a portion of the
discount was kicked back through a ledger account to a foreign government
official, rather than credited to the purchasing government customer.

The SEC alleges that bribes also were made through phony sales
intermediaries and corrupt business partners, as well as through the use of
cash desks. Sales executives would obtain cash from the company in amounts
as high as hundreds of thousands of dollars, enabling Daimler to obscure the
purpose and recipients of the money paid to government officials.

According to the SEC's complaint, the bribery permeated several major
business units and subsidiaries, was sanctioned by members of Daimler's
management, and continued during the course of the SEC's investigation.
Daimler's corrupt practices were authorized by or known to the former heads
of Daimler's Overseas Sales and Commercial Vehicles departments, the
former head of Daimler Export and Trade Finance (a subsidiary of Daimler
Financial Services), and the former heads of Daimler subsidiaries in numerous
foreign countries.

Daimler violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by
making illicit payments to foreign government officials in order to obtain or
retain business. Daimler violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by
failing to have adequate internal controls to detect and prevent the
payments, and it violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act by
improperly recording the payments in its books and records.

Without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, Daimler has consented to
the entry of a court order permanently enjoining it from future violations of
Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. The court
order also requires Daimler to comply with certain undertakings regarding its
FCPA compliance program, including a provision that requires the company to
retain an independent consultant for three years. Daimler cooperated with the
ongoing investigation, conducted its own substantial internal investigation,
and remediated problems as they were identified.

The SEC acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice's
Fraud Section and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

HEHE

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-51.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 04/01/2010
