UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMUSSION,
160 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549-6838
- Case: 1:16-ev-00473

 

Plaintiff, | Assigned To: Leon, Richard J.
| Assign. Date : 3/22/2016
ve Description: General Civil
DAIMLER AG,
Mercedesstrasse 137
70327. .
‘Stuttgart, Germany
Defendant.
COMPLAINT
Plaintiff United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) alleges
that:

| SUMMARY OF THE ACTION
1. From at least 1998 through 2008, Daimler AG, formerly known as —

DaimlerChrysler AG Daimler” or the “Company”), and certain of its subsidiaries and affihates,
violated the anti-bribery, books and records and internal controls provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act ( the “FCPA”) by making illicit payments, directly or indirectly, to foreign
government officials in order to secure and maintain business worldwide. a

2. During this time period, Daimler paid bribes to government officials to further
government sales in Asia, Africa, Basten Europe and the Middle East. In connection with at
least 31 transactions, Daimler violated the anti-bribery provision of the FCPA by paying tens of

millions of dollars in corrupt payments to foreign government officials to secure business in
- Russia, China, Vietnam, Nigeria, Hungary, Latvia, Croatia and Bosnia. These corrupt payments
were made through the use of U.S. mails or the means or instrumentality of U.S. interstate
commerce. |

3. _ Daimler also violated the FCPA’s books and records and internal controls
provisions in connection with the 51 transactions and at least an additional 154 transactions, in
which it made improper payments totaling at least $56 million to secure business in 22 countries,
including, among others, Russia, China, Nigeria, Vietnam, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, North
Korea, and Indonesia. Through these tainted sales transactions, which involved at least 6,300
commercial vehicles and 500 passenger cars, Daimler earned $1.9 billion in revenue and at least
$91 A million in illegal profits, |

4. | Nineteen of these transactions, which occurred between approximately 2001
through 2003, involved direct and indirect sales of motor vehicles and spare parts under the
United Nations Oil for Food Program. Those transactions included $6,048,948 in bribes in the
form of under-the-table “after sales service fees.” Daimler offered to pay kickbacks of more
than $1 million under Six direct contracts with lragi ministries; made one payment of $7,134
under a direct contract; and knowingly acquiesced in the payment of another $5 million in |
‘kickbacks by its contract partners in connection with twelve indirect Oil for Food contracts.

5 OA number of Daimler’s former senior executives, who operated in a decentralized
corporate structure, permitted or were directly involved in the Company’s bribery practices, .
including the head of its overseas sales department, who reported directly to the Company’s most
senior officers, The Company's internal audit, legal, and finance and accounting depariments,
which should have provided checks on the activities of the sales force, instead played important

roles in the subversion of internal controls and obfuscation of corporate records.
6. The improper payments were made possible in part as a result of the falsification
of corporate records and a lax system of internal controls. .

7. In this environment, Daimler developed several organized procedures and
mechanisms through which improper payments could be made. Daimler’s books and records
contained over 200 ledger accounts, known internally as “interne Fremdkonten,” of, “internal
third party accounts,” which reflected credit balances controlled by Daimler subsidiaries or
outside third parties. Certain Daimler employees used numerous such accounts to make or
facilitate improper payments to foreign government officials. Bribes were also made through the
use of “corporate cash desks” (where sales executives would obtain cash in amounts as high as |
400,000 Deutsche Marks for making improper payments), deceptive pricing and commission
arrangements, phony sales intermediaries, rogue business partners and misuse of inter-company
and debtor accounts.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

8. This court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e), and 27 of
| the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C, §878u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. Daimler, directly or indirectly, made
use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a
national securities exchange in connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of —
business alleged in this Complaint. | a

9. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 ,
U.S.C. § 78aa] because Daimler, as a US. issuer, files required periodic reports with the

Commission in this fudicial district.
DEFENDANT

10. Daimler, a publicly-held corporation organized under the laws of the Federal
Republic of Germany, is a global company primarily engaged in manufacturing automobiles.
The Company is headquartered in Stuttgart, Germany: The Company’s common stock is
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) [15 U.S.C. § 781(b)] of the Exchange
Act and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, where its stock is traded under the symbol
DAL

FACTS

ll. From at least 1998, employees of Daimler and certain of its subsidiaries and
affiliates made imaproper payments to foreign government officials to further sales in many |
counties. This conduct dates back toa time when such payments were not prohibited by
German law, and therefore were tax deductible according to the German Tax Code.

12. Daimler internally referred to these payments as “N.A.” payments, which was the
abbreviation of the German term muiitzliche Aufwendungen, meaning “useful expenditures” or
“useful payments.”

13. | In February 1999, Germany outlawed foreign bribery when the Organization for
7 Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) Anti-Bribery Convention, which Germany
ratified, entered into force. Daimler, however, had been prohibited from making bribes to
foreign government officials under the FCPA since 1993 when its predecessor, Daimler-Benz
AG, registered a class of securities under § 12 of the Exchange Act.

14, Notwithstanding its status as a U.S. issuer, the Company failed to end its long-

standing bribery practices and bring its overseas sales business into compliance with the FCPA.

 

! Up until the divestiture of Daimlex’s Chrysler division in May 2007, the Company was known as
DaimlerChrysler AG, which was the product of the 1998 merger between Daimler-Benz and Chrysler Corporation.
iS. in tact, until recently, Daimler’s FCPA compliance program, outside its former
U.S.-based Chrysler division, was virtually non-existent, even though the Company has
thousands of employees and dozens of affiliates and business units selling vehicles to foreign
governments and government-related entities in many foreign countries.
16. Although Daimler adopted a corporate Integrity Code in July 1999, which
. included anti-bribery provisions, it failed to adequately enforce those provisions or train
| employees outside the U.S. on FCPA compliance.

17. Daimler also failed to implement meaningful oversight of the activities of its sales
force. Accounting and legal personnel often reported to top sales management, rather than
independent, centralized departments with compliance functions. In several instances, in fact,
Daimler’s legal and accounting departments aided the corrupt practices of the sales departments
rather than provide a safeguard against such practices. |

18. Daimler also failed to maintain adequate controls over the selection of, or
payments to, sales intermediaries, many of whom were actually nominees for government
officials, or over the establishment and use of bank accounts.

19. Daimler and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates utilized a variety of
instruments to make improper payments in at least 22 countries around the world.

20. The instruments through which improper payments were made included hundreds
of ledger accounts on Daimler’s own books, corporate “cash desks” (where sales personnel!
would obtain cash), deceptive pricing. and commission arrangements, offshore bank accounts,
inflated service fees, and nominees for government officials improperly described as “sales

intermediaries” and “consultants.”
Zi. Daimler’s practice of securing business through the payment of bnibes to foreign
government officials permeated to several major business units and. subsidiaries and was
sanctioned by its senior management. Daimler’s corrupt practices were carried out by major
department heads of Daimler Overseas Sales and Commercial Vehicles. |

22, Similarly, improper payments were authorized by or known to the former heads
_ of Daimiler’s Overseas Sales and Commercial Vehicles departments, the former heads of Daimler

Export and Trade Finance (a subsidiary of Daimler Financial Services), and the former heads of |
Daimier’s subsidiaries in Vietnam, China, Turkey, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Russia and
the EvoBus subsidiary (“EvoBus’”).
A. Daimler Used “Third-Party” Ledger Accounts to Facilitate Bribes
23. When Daimler-Benz AG merged with Chrysler Corp. in November 1998, Daimler
maintained over 200 ledger accounts known as “internal third party accounts” “TPA” or
“TPAs”}, referred to in German as interne Fremdkonten, which were used for numerous business
purposes. Since at least 1977, Daimler maintained written policies governing the operation of
TPAs. Daimler’s Overseas Sales department (Overseas Sales”) in many instances misused
certain of these TPAs to facilitate improper payments to foreign government officials in Africa,
Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
24. Certain TPAs were managed by the most senior Overseas Sales executives,
including the former head of Overseas Sales. The former head of finance and controlling for
- Overseas Sales and the then heads of certain Daimler subsidiaries also authorized disbursements
from TPAs. .
25. Although the TPAs were internal Daimler general ledger accounts and managed

by employees of Daimler and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, the funds in certain of the
TPAs were disbursed according to structions given by third-party beneficiaries of the accounts,
including government officials. Such credits recorded in the TPAs—usually were disbursed in
cash or by wiring the money to bank accounts throughout the world.

26. Some of the TPAs were known only to the few Daimler employees managing
_ them, and payments from the accounts were often confidential, meaning that funds credited to

and debited from these accounts and cash disbursements were often not transparent or subject to
a paper trail or other financial controls.

27. Given the unregulated nature of these accounts, over time, TPAs were used to
forward large sums of cash throughout the world, assist Daimler’s outside business partners and
subsidiaries evade taxes in their respective countries of operation and pay salaries for Daimler
expatriate employees working overseas, which, in effect, improperly shielded these funds from
German tax authorities,

28. Daimler maintained several TPAs on its general ledger in the name ofits own
overseas subsidiaries, which were controlled by the then heads of the subsidiaries and former
Overseas Sales senior executives and used to facilitate government deals.

29. In other cases, TPAs were maintained in Daimler’s general ledger in the names of
third parties outside the Company, including foreign government officials or Daimler’s dealers, |
‘distributors or other agents, who were at times used as intermediaries to make payments to

foreign government officials.

30. Daimler, for example, maintained a TPA called “Consulting Egypt” for the
benefit of a senior official of a government-owned factory that purchased Daimler chassis and

parts and assembled and sold personnel carriers to the Egyptian Army. From 1998 to 2004,
Daimler paid the official through credits to the TPA 1,123,224 Deutsche Mark (“DM”) and later
€322,101 to secure the sale of Vehicle chassis and fire trucks to the factory.
31.  TPAs were also funded by money obtained from the government customers

oF 66,

themselves through one of several bogus pricing mechanisms, such as “price surcharges,” “pnce

93

inchisions,” or excessive coramissions, “discounts” or “rebates.”

32. These artificial pricing mechanisms were used by Daimler or its agent to build a
reserve into the price the povernment customer paid for the vehicle, which was credited (Ze.,
kicked back} into a TPA and later paid out as a bribe-to or for the benefit of foreign government
officials. In the case of artificial discounts or rebates on sales contracts, all or a portion of the
discount would be kicked back, through the TPA, toa foreign government official, rather than
the purchasing government customer. |

33. | Under this scenario, Daimler held the money generated from a fraudulent pricing
arrangement ina TPA until the TPA beneficiary or Daimler subsidiary or agent directed a
transfer of the funds. Daimler, however, did not accumulate any interest or other charges for
maintaining these funds for its account holders and the funds could be carried on the Company’s
books indefinitely.

34. Prior to 2002, Daimier’s TPA policies also permitted senior executives, including
the former head of Overseas Sales, the former head of finance and controlling for Overseas Sales
and former heads of subsidiaries, to authorize cash disbursements from TPAs.

35. The cash was disbursed from a “cash desk” located at a Daimler facility in
Stuttgart, Germany, and a corresponding debit was booked to the relevant TPA.

36. Daimler failed to adequately monitor where cash was being directed or whether

cash disbursements were being made for legitimate business purposes.
37. In connection with its government customers in Nigeria, for example, Daimler
employees withdrew DM 400,000 and $150,000 from the cash desk and transported the Marks

and us dollars to Nigeria to pay bribes to foreign government officials. |

38. In 2002, Daimler closed its cash desk in Stuttgart, but cash payments continued to
be made through its subsidiaries or through offshore bank accounts. Daimler mstituted new
policies in 2002 requiring the beneficiaries of TPAs to designate a “reference bank account” to
which payments could be wired or otherwise transferred (eliminating the need for cash

. disbursements). However, the policies did not require that the barik account be maintained ina
; country m which the account holder resided or where’ the services of the bank account
beneficiary. were purportedly rendered. |
1. Dairaler Paid Bribes Through TPAs in Nigeria

39. Daimler made bribe payments and kept funds that were not properly recorded on
“its books through four TPAs that were held ‘by Anambra Motor Manufacturing Company
(“Anammeo”), a then Daimler-controlled joint venture between Daimler and the Federal Military
_ Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, through which Daimler sold vehicles into
| Nigeria. Daimler sold its interest in the joint venture m 2007.

46. 2A portion of Daimler’s proceeds from the sale of vehicles in Nigeria was credited
to the Ariaramco TPAs. Senior executives of Dairaler then used a portion of these credits to fund
improper payments to foreign governmeit officials. a |

41. Between 1998 and 2005, Daimler paid approximately DM 3.9 million, $1 million
and €230,000 in improper payments to Nigerian government officials. The bribe payments from _
the Anammeo TPAs were made to secure sales contracts worth approximately $73 million with

at least seven different government customers. These payments were either improperly recorded .
in Daimler’s books and records or were not recorded at all and were made as a result of weak
internal controls. _
42. The Anammeo TPAs were controlled by the former head of Overseas Sales and
"the former head of Daimler’s Nigerian office through which Daimler carried out its business in
Nigeria (the “Nigerian representative office”), who also Was the managing director of Anammco.
These two former executives had decision-making authority over the sales operations in Nigeria,
and they were able to direct large scale bribe payments.

43. For example, in order to obtain a deal to sell armored vehicles to the Nigerian:
government, the former head of Overseas Sales authorized the former head of Daimler’s
Nigerian representative office to debit an Anammco TPA and pay DM 200,000 and DM 50,000,
respectively, to two senior Nigerian government officials, who had decision-making authority
over the contract. Daimler employees then wired the famds to the personal foreign bank accounts
of these two officials in England and Germany. |

44. Similarly, in order to obtain another deal involving the sale of cormmercial
vehicles toa Nigerian state-owned entity, the former head of the Nigerian representative office
effectuated a debit of nearly €200,000 from an Anaramco TPA and had the funds wired from a

Daimler bank account in Germany to a bank account in England held by the entity’s managing _ |
director. | | -

a5. The former head of Overseas Sales and the former head of the Nigerian

“representative office also routinely withdrew large sums of cash in various currencies from |
Daimler’s corporate cash desk in Germany to make bribe payments to secure business in Nigeria,
| 46. Daimler failed to adequately monitor the amount of cash that could be withdrawn

through the cash desk or understand the purpose of the withdrawals. The former head of the

10
Nigerian representative office, for example, was authorized by the former head of Overseas Sales
to debit an Anammco TPA to obtain DM 400,000 in cash from the cash desk for use towards the |
hotel stay, travel, dining and shopping of a senior Nigerian government official, his delegation
and their relatives.

47. in connection with the contract to sell buses to a Nigerian state-owned entity, the -
former head of the Nigeria representative office withdrew $110,000 in cash from the cash desk
and delivered the fonds from Germany to Nigeria io make bribe payments to government
officials affiliated with the entity. |

48. Atone point, the former head of the Nigerian representative office and a senior
sales manager for Anamimco opened up at least two Swiss bank accounts, which were funded by
credit balances in Anammco TPAs. -

49. The former head of Overseas Sales authorized approximately DM 2.1 million to
be transferred from Anammco TPAs into these Swiss bank accounts for payment to government
officials to obtain sales contracts with various agencies of the Nigerian government.

2. Star Aute, S.A.

50. Daimler made a series of bribe payments through a TPA that was maintained for
the benefit of Star Auto 8.A. (“Star Auto”), at the time a Daimler majority-owned and controlled
entity based in the Ivory Coast. - |

51. Star Auto operated as Daimnler’s general dealer in the Ivory Coast, and sales
intermediary when direct sales were made between Overseas Sales and West African customers.
Star Auto operated a regional center for coordinating sales in 14 West African countries.

Daimler sold its interest in Star Auto in 2008.

il -
52. The former head of Overseas Sales, the former head of finance and controlling for
Overseas Sales, and the former managing director of Star Auto controlled the Star Auto TPA.

53. The three former Daimler executives also controlled an off-the-books German
bank account at Volksbank, which was used in conjunction with the Star Auto TPA to make |
improper payments and existed outside Daimler’s accounting system. |

(54. ‘Through the Star Auto TPA and the bank account at Volksbank, the three former
_ executives made improper payments to government officials in Ghana, Liberia and Poland in the

amounts of DM 630,000, $1 70,000 and €111,175, securing at least $24.5 million in vehicle sales
between 1998 and 2004. | |
55. The three former executives disguised the true purpose of the payments from the
Star Auto TPA, which resulted in inaccuracies in Daimler’s books and records.
56. F or example, in an effort to enter the trucking market in Poland through the sale
| of 30 trucks to a Polish government entity and establishment of a local office in Warsaw, in 2004
former Daimler executives made cash bribe payments totaling €100,000 to a high ranking Polish
government official who represented the government entity in the deal. The cash was withdrawn
from the Star Auto account at Volksbank against credit balances in the Star Auto TPA and
| personally delivered by the former head of Overseas Sales and another senior Overseas Sales
executive to the government official at a hotel room in Stattgart, Germany. The former -
managing director of Star Auto then improperly noted in an internal memo that €60,000 of the
€100,000 was paid in connection with “service expenses for major Polish customers (Mail road
construction project).” Similarly, the remaining €40,000 cash payment was improperly
referenced in an internal document as a payment for “consulting services with regard to the

Warsaw. branch office for trucks.”

12
57. In other deals where Daimler used the Star Auto TPA to make the bribe
payments, the Company used phony intermediaries or its own outside dealers to dispuise the true
nature and purpose of the payments. |

58. Daimler, for example, obtained a sales contract to supply 100 trucks to the
| government of Liberia by providing a free armored Mercedes G 500 vehicle worth nearly
$600,000 to a senior Liberian government official. Daimler then arranged to pay its outside
dealer in Liberia $600,000, which was mischaracterized as commissions, and which the dealer
then used to pay for the vehicle. This deceptive structuring of the deal made it appear as if the
dealer purchased the vehicle when, i fact, Daimler employees gifted the vehicle to the Liberian
government official as a bribe | |

3. Dabmnler Refuses te Stop Using TPAS te Make Bribes Despite Risks
59. For many years, Daimler used TPAs to make bribes despite being aware of the
legal risks associated with the accounts. |

60. An internal audit report, dated March 24, 1986, acknowledged that the accounts |
might violate the laws of other countries and that disclosure of the TPAs to certain governments
could pose “significant difficulties” for the Company as well as the beneficiaries of the accounts.

61. | Consequently, pursuant to corporate policy, TPAs were maintained with “absolute

confidentiality” and only “in the knowledge of a few. [Daimler] employees.”

| 62. | After foreign bribery became ‘illegal : in Germany i in 1999, Daimler’s internal audit
department placed semor executives at the Company on notice that mternal control weaknesses
associated with the TPAs left the accounts susceptible to being used for bribery.

63. The former head of intemal audit for Daimler’s operations outside of North

America became concerned that the approximately 200 TPAs in existence at that time would _

43
~ continue to be used for effectuating bribes, as had been Daimler’s practice prior to the change in
German law. Concerned about this risk and possible misuse of the TPAs, in early 2000, the
internal audit head directed his internal audit staff to conduct a review of all the Company’s
TPAs.

64. Ina May 2000 memo to senior sales and finance personnel, Daimler’s internal
audit staff warned that there was a hi gh risk that the TPAs did not comport with either the
Company’s Integrity Code or changed German law. Another internal audit memo stated that, by
not revising | guidelines over the use of TPAs, the Company could be viewed as facilitating
“fraudul ent transactions within the organization.”

65. The May 2000 memo further noted that, given the lack of internal controls over
TPAs, internal audit could be held responsible for failing to take remedial measures should.
certain transactions occur and become public..

66. . Accordingly, the May 2000 memo recommended that internal audit, among other .
things, review all TPAs to determine whether commission payments were legitimate, conduct -
audits of all operational sales departments to “identify favors granted that might be problematic
from a legal point of view. and cancelling them as soon as possible,” and obligate ali Daimler
contract partners to provide written confirmation that no commission or resale price margins
would be passed through fo “sub agents,” 7 |

67. Inthe same memo, internal audit also recommended to senior executives of
Overseas Sales and the finance and accounting department that the Company: (1) close the TPAs
"unless there is documented proof that the funds in TPAs are necessary for legitimate business

purposes; (2) obtain documented proof of actual services rendered by an outside agent and

14
business partners before paying commissions: and (3} obtain representations that commissions _
are not passed through to “sub agents.” - |

68.. In August 2000, the internal audit staff created a formal audit report entitled
“Review of Internal Control Procedures Invoicing Process GFN/L” that addressed internal
controls risks surrounding TPAs.

69. The summary of the andit report, which was sent to certain members of the Board
of Management, reflected that “the correctness of invoice processing and settlement of -
commissions/discounts are subject to serious risks,” including the “[albsence of central
‘obligatory internal controls principles forthe respective business units” of the Company. The
sumunary further stated that such internal controls issues increase the risk of fraud and |
“endangers the adherence to the [Company’s] Integrity code.” .

70. The body of the August 2000 report, which was sent to senior finance and sales
executives, went on to further state that internal controls surrounding the invoicing, commission
payments and rebate accounting in the sales organization were weak, lacked central oversight
and subjected Daimler to fraud risks,

71. The body of the report further noted that there were “fundamental gaps in
security” in the way the sales organization paid commissions and invoiced customers “which

will necessarily lead to serious risks of fraudulent acts to the detriment of [Daimler] and to
corresponding risks with respect to compliance with the Integrity Code.” | |

72. Despite such warnings from internal audit, those who received the summary and
body of the internal audit report failed to direct the Company’s accounting department to |

improve internal controls surrounding the TPAs, let alone close the accounts.

15
73. | The Board of Management failed to direct internal audit to audit the TPAs and
associated bank accounts to determine whether the TPAs were operating in compliance with
anti-bribery laws.

. 74. Daimier’s internal audit staff also faced pressure to keep TPAs open from former
= senior Overseas Sales executives, such as the former head of Overseas Sales and the former head
of fmance and controlling for Overseas. Sales, who feared a potential loss of sales volume ifthe -
TPAs were eliminated. As reflected in internal audit memos, former Overseas Sales
management also resisted improvements in internal controls and transparency for the TPAs.

75. | In 2002, although the Company decided to reduce the number of TPAs to 5 0 and
_ shut down its central cash desk, cash payments continued to be made through cash desks and
bank accounts controlled by its subsidiaries, and the Company failed to effectively improve __
controls surrounding the remaining TPAs. |

76.  TheSO TPAs remained open over the objections of the internal audit head, and his
department’s efforts to rein in the use of TPAs was hampered by Daimler’s decentralized
corporate structure and, according to the internal audit head, the Company’s expectation that
' internal audit not serve a “police function.”

WT internal audit ultimately recommended that senior sales management—the
. individuals most responsible for directing bribes to secure sales~conduct a “self-audit” to
determine whether bribes were paid from the TPAs. The remaining open TPAs were closed in
2004 and 2005, only. after the Commission began its investigation. .
B. Daimler Used Other Ledger Accounts to Facilitate Bribes
8. Jn addition io TPAs, Daimler used a variety of other ledger accounts to make

corrupt payments to foreign government officials to secure vehicle sales and other business.

16
79. Similar to TPAs, the money in the other ledger accounts used for bribes was often
generated from fraudulent pricing arrangernents.

80. In connection with certain sales of passenger cars in Russia and conumercial
vehicles in China, for example, Daimler and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates routinely
over-invoiced the government customers between 10%-30% for phony add-ons such as parts or
services that were not delivered (and never intended to be delivered), resulting in an
overpayment of the inflated contract price. The excess amount was then passed on to high-
ranking government officials through credits to inter-company and debtor accounts associated
with the respective transactions, which were then transferred to bank accounts designated by
foreign government officials,

81. The improper payments to government officials or their designees through these _
ledger accounts were either not recorded on Daimler’s books and records or inaccurately
recorded to disguise the true nature of the payments.

82. Daimler, for example, sold passenger cars to two Russian governmental entities.
Daimler maintained on its. books credit balances that were also used by certain Daimler
employees to make improper payments to bank accounts designated by government officials
associated with the two Russian governmental entities. Credits to these accounts were
mislabeled as “commissions,” or “special discounts,” or identified as NLA”

83. In connection with government sales in Vietnam, former senior sales executives at
Daimler’s MB Vietnam subsidiary improperly booked corrupt payments in several expense
accounts designated as.““Key Accounts,” Costs of Goad Sold, “Gifts Line,” “Petty Cash,” and. |

“Broker Commissions.”

17
84. Likewise, Daimiler’s Indonesian subsidiary misused “employee vendor accounts,”
which were intended for booking employee travel-related expenses, for booking large cash
disbursements to officials from a state-owned company. Many of these payments were also
characterized as “fulfillment of commitment” on internal payment authorization sheets and were
improperly booked on Daimler’s corporate accounting system as “cost of goods sold.”

85. Cash was also withdrawn against certain “omnibus” accounts and noted on
‘payment instructions as “to be handed to the customer” without recording the true nature of the
payment on Daimiler’s books. |

86. In connection with the sale of a commercial vehicle to a government customer in
Russia, for instance, former Daimler employees made cash payments to two government officials
totaling DM 9,191.34. Both payments were referenced internally as “social support” payments.
At least one of these payments was evidenced by a receipt signed by a government official. A
former employee of Daimler’s subsidiary in Russia, pursuant to orders from superiors, withdrew
these funds from his own bank account in Germany, flew to Russia with the cash in a suitcase,
paid the officials in cash, and was later reimbursed by Daimler.

c. Daimler Paid Kickbacks in Connection with the United Nations Oil
for Food Program

 

87. Daimler's involvement in the payment of bribes through the Oil for Food Progratn
took two forms -- direct sales and indirect sales through third parties. Both avenues involved the
secret payment of ten percent kickbacks to Iraqi government-controlled accounts in a manner
designed to avoid detection by UN, inspectors. The payments were characterized as “after sales
service fees” (“ASSFs”); however, no services were actually performed. The fee was effectively
a kickback paid te the Traqi regime. Daimler’s accounting for its Oil for Food transactions failed

properly to record the nature of the kickback payments that the company either authorized or

18
made. ‘The ASSF payments were not identified in the official purchase contracts provided for the
U.N.’s review and were not made through the U.N.’s authorized payment channels. Daimler’s
| profits on these Oil for Food Program contracts totaled $4,121,3 3.

88. The ULN. Secutity Council established the Oil for Food Program to address a
humanitarian crisis in Iraq that resulted from trade sanctions levied on Irag by the U.N. and the
US. following Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1991. Under the Program, the then Iraqi government
was permitted to sell crude oil, the proceeds of which flowed into a U.N.-controlled escrow |
account, and the lraqi regime was permitted to use the proceeds to purchase humanitarian
supplies. The kickbacks paid in connection with the Oil for Food contracts had the effect of

diverting funds out of the escrow account and into accounts under the control of the Iraqi
government. The Company knew that the ASSF payments were prohibited by the Oil for Food
Program and by the relevant trade sanctions.

89. Between April and October 2001, Dairaler entered into seven direct contracts with

Iraqi ministries. In all seven transactions, Daimler officials in the Iraq sales office of Overseas
_ Sales entered into side agreements with the Iraqi ministries in order to obtain the U.N. contracts.
Daimler did not disclose to the U.N. the side agreements, which called for illegal kickback
payments totaling approximately $1 million. Of the seven contracts, only one resulted in the
. delivery of a vehicle to Irag before the U.S. invaded Irag in March 2003. This transaction
involved the payment ofa $7,134 kickback to an iraqi government ministry. |

90. Daimler officials took affirmative steps to conceal the nature of the ASSF

_ kickbacks. Following the US. invasion, for example, the U.N. demanded that Daimler
eliminate the ASSF kickbacks from an Oil for Food contract to supply mobile workstations, A

Daimler official falsely represented to the U.N. that the ASSF was “a special discount” and that

19
-it was nevér Daimler's “intention to pay such amount to any third party.” The Daimler official
knew that the ASSF payment was not a discount on the contract price, and was instead an
“under-the-table” kickback to be paid at the direction of Iraqi government officials.

91. On another contract, Overseas Sales employees concealed the illegal ASSF

kickback by evading the established UN. payment channels. They disguised the kickback as a
legitimate commission to Daimler’s agent in Iraq whose company provided warranty service on

. Daimler vehicles in Iraq. Daimler inflated the agent’s commission by $7,1 34, and the agent

wired that amount from his company’s Swiss bank account to the Iraqi government-controlled

account at the Housing Bank for Trade and Finance in Amman, Jordan. Daimler improperly
recorded the payment as a legitimate agent commission.

92. Ultimately, Daimler conducted most of its Iraqi business under the Program
through third parties. Under the third-party agreements, Daimler sold trucks, truck chassis, and
spare parts to companies in the Middle East and other countries. Daimler’s contract partners
typically modified the vehicles and resold them to Iraqi ministries, paying the standard 10%
kickback. In total, Daimler entered into twelve third-party contracts in which its contract
partners made an estimated $5 million in ASSF payments.

93. The Daimler officials who negotiated the third-party contracts knew or should
have known that Daimler’s contract partners would pay illegal kickbacks to iraqi ministries. For
example, Daimler obtained copies of contract files containing resale agreements between its
contract partners and the Iraqi ministry end-purchasers. The contract files included the secret

| side agreements to pay ASSF kickbacks. One internal Daimler email message acknowledged the

side letters using the German abbreviation K.D. for “Kundendienst,” or after-sales services

payment.

20
B Daimler Bribed Through Phony Intermediaries and Consultants

94. Daimler routinely used sham intermediaries and consultants to funnel payments to
government officials in several countries, including Russia, Latvia, China, Uzbekistan, Greece,
Turkey, Hungary, Ghana, Nigeria, and Vietnam. Several of these comupt payments were made
to US. bank accounts controlled ‘by nominees for the foreign government officials.

95. In China, Daimler funneled bribes to government officials through as many as 7 i
“intermediaries” many of whom were associated with phony consulting contracts or entities.
with no actual business operations.

96. In connection with contracts worth €37,415,070 to sell 302 buses and 4 vans to an |
Uzbekistan government agency; for example, Daimler’s EvoBus subsidiary paid a total of
approximately €3.5 million in improper payments to shell companies of government officials to
obtain the deal. |

97.  Daimler’s internal price calculation sheets marked “confidential” reflect that
BvoBus sales executives promised to pay certain Uzbek government officials 10% of the
underlying net sales price of the bus deal, or approximately €3.5 million.

98. Daimler entered into phony consulting agreements with these shell companies .
about one month before exeeuting the sales contract with the Uzbek government agency, while

internally referring to the payments in conniection with the agreements as “NAP | |

99, The payments were sent to a bank account in England and another in Switzerland
held by two nominee companies incorporated in the British Virgin Islands.

100. Similarly, in order to obtain contracts to sell } 17 buses to a city in Latvia in deals
worth approximately €30 million, the former head of sales for MB Buses at EvoBus executed -

consulting agreements involving no discernible services with two U.S.-incorporated nominees

24
for City Council members, and paid those entities €1,251,274 in connection with the bus
contract.

101. The arrangement to pay the Council members “under the table money” through
nominees was reflected in several internal EvoBus documents. A March 24, 2002 memo reflects
that a 5% commission on the underlying deal (or €216,115) would be made through one of the
US. incorporated nominees to the members of a political party in the Latvian city, who
controlled the City Council at the time, including the son of a high-ranking government official
whose father had influence over the tender, |

102. Other internal documents show that later corrupt payments to members of a
political party on the Latvian City Council, who also had influence over the tender, were made
through the other of the two US. nominees.

103. Daimler routinely made payments to foreign government officials through
nominee and personal bank accounts in Latvia, the United States and other countries with no
other association to the sales transactions at issue, |

104. For example, in order to obtain a contract for the sale of four vehicles to a Russian
government agency, Daimler wired €110,000 to a German bank account held in the name of a |
senior official at that government agency.

105.. / Tn addition, Daimler wired funds to bank accounts in Latvia held by five corporate
nominees of the senior official from the Russian government agency, his wife and other
individuals close to him.

106. After the Commission’s FCPA investigation started, in order to circumvent new
controls that had been put in place, Daimler paid “commissions” totaling €488,320 to a third-

party intermediary named by the senior official from the Russian government agency. The third-—

22
party intermediary instructed Daimler to wire the so-called commission payments to Latvian
bank accounts, one of which was previously held in the name of an earlier nominee of the senior
official from the Russian government agency,

E. Daimler Made Bribes Through Dealers and Distributors

107. In countries such as Greece, Liberia, Turkmenistan, Latvia, and Bulgaria, Daimler
utilized certain of its in-country dealers and distributors as corrupt intermediaries to facilitate
deals with government customers, pass bribes to government officials and assist Daimler in
hiding the true nature of the corrupt payments on its books.

108. In Greece, for instance, Daimler’s long-time Mercedes general representative
owned part of a principally-state-owned company that supplied vehicles to a Greek government
agency. Daimler engaged the Greek representative to use his influence to secure the sale of 645
vehicles to the Greek government agency and coordinated with the representative to pass bribe
payments to government officials through phony consultants and intermediaries.

109. In connection with this deal, Daimler paid nearly DM 17 million, which was
shared between officials of the Greek government agency and the Greek representative.

110. Similarly, in order to enter the market and secure business in Tarkmenistan,
Daimler, with the aid of its distributor in Turkmenistan, provided pitts personally to a senior
government official of Turkmenistan, who had decision-making authority over Daimiler’s sales
contracts with the Turkmen government.

lil. . These pifts took the form of two armored vehicles worth at least €550,000 in total
and the German translation and publication of a book authored by the Turkmen senior |

government official. There were also at least $2 million in payments to the distributor and other

23
third parties that were characterized in Daimler documents as NLA. payments and additional
costs.

¥F. ~~ Daimler Provided Government Officials Lavish Travel

112. In connection with Daimler’s commercial vehicle business in China, Daimler
routinely executed side agreements with its government customers through which the Company
agreed to retum a certain percentage of the contract or a specific amount of money to the
customer-——mistabeled as a special commission or special discount—for the purpose of funding.
lavish trips for government officials. |

113. The “delegation trips” funded by the so-called discounts and commissions were in
reality lavish vacations to European cities for Chinese government officials and their relatives.

114. . in order to sell two commercial vehicles to a Chinese government agency, for
| example, Daimler executed side agreements stating that €11,000 as a “special commission”
would be returned to the customer once full payment was received on the commercial vehicles

and that Daimler would pay for accommodations and flights for a six person delegation to visit
“Germany/Europe.”

115. As reflected in internal documents, Daimler later allocated €1 1,000 towards
financing a lavish vacation for six officials io Luxembourg, Amsterdam, Brussels, Patis, Rome,
- Florence, Venice and Munich. In total; between 1999 and 2006, Daimler paid for at least 16
such delegation trips in connection with $120 million in vehicle sales to the Chinese government
customers,

FIRST CLAIM
{Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act]

116. Paragraphs 1 through 115 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

“24
117. As described above, Daimler, and certain of its subsidiaries, through means or .
: instrumentalities of US. commerce, cormuptly offered, promised to pay, or authorized corrupt
payments to a person, while knowing that all or a portion of those payments would be offered,
give, or promised, directly or indirectly, to foreign government officials for the purposes of
influencing their acts or decisions in their official capacity, inducing them to do or omit to do
actions in violation of their lawful duties, securing an improper advantage, or inducing such.
foreign officials to use their influence with a foreign government or instrumentality thereof to
assist Daimler in obtaining or retaining business.

118. By reason of the foregoing, Daimler violated the anti-bribery provisions ofthe —
FCPA, as codified at Section 30A of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78dd-1].

SECOND CLAIM

[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]
119. Paragraphs | through 118 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

120. As described-above, Daimler, and certain of its subsidiaries, failed to make and
_ keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its
transactions and dispositions of its assets.

121. By reason of the foregoing, Daimler violated Section 13(b)(2\(A) of the Exchange

‘Act {15 USC. § T8m(b)(2\AY].

25
THIRD CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2}(@) of the Exchange Act}

122. Paragraphs 1 through 121 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

. 123. As described above, with respect to improper payments to foreign officials,
Daimler and certain of its subsidiaries failed to devise and maintain a system of internal.
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: @) payments were made in

accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (ii) payments were
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to
maintain accountability for its assets. | |
124. By reason of the foregoing, Daimler violated Section 13(6)(2)(B) of the Exchange

Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment: | -

_A. Permanently restraining and enjoining Dairoler from violating Sections 30A,
13@)2KA) and 1300)2)B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, 78m(b)(2)(A), and
TemOOB, OS
| B. ~° Ordering Daimler to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a result of
_its illegal conduct; and | |

Cc. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

26
Dated: March}, 2010

‘Of Counsel
Gerald W. Hodgkins (DC Bar No. 447678)

Conway T. Dodge --
Anita B. Bandy (DC Bar No. 465629)

Cheryl J. Scarboro (DC Bar No. 422175)
Tracy L. Price
Robert 1. Dodge (DC Bar No. 418914)

27

Frederick L. Block (DC Bar No. 492358)

U.S. Securities and Exchange Coramission

100 F Street, NLE.
Washington, D.C. 20549
Tel: 202-551-4919
Pax: 202-772-9245
BlockF @sec.gov

Attorneys for Plaintiff
