cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Announces Settlement with Debt
Collector for Credit Reporting Violation

NOV 12, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) today
announced a settlement with Afni, Inc. (Afni) to address its violations in providing
information to consumer reporting agencies (CRAs). Afni is a non-bank Illinois-based debt
collector that specializes in collecting debt on behalf of telecommunications companies and
furnishes information to consumer reporting agencies (CRAs) about consumers’ credit. The
consent order requires Afni to take certain steps to prevent future violations and imposes a
$500,000 civil money penalty.

The Bureau found that Afni furnished information to CRAs that it knew or had reasonable
cause to believe was inaccurate and failed to report to CRAs an appropriate date of first
delinquency on certain accounts. The Bureau also found that Afni failed to conduct
reasonable investigations of disputes made by consumers both to Afni and to CRAs about
furnished information and failed to conduct investigations of disputes made to Afni in a
timely manner. In addition, the Bureau found that Anfi failed to send required notices to
consumers about the results of such investigations and failed to establish, implement, and
update its policies and procedures regarding its furnishing of consumer information to
CRAs. Afni’s conduct violated the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and its implementing
rule, Regulation V and, by engaging in these violations of the FCRA and Regulation V, Afni
violated the Consumer Financial Protection Act.

Under the terms of the consent order, Afni must take certain steps to improve and ensure
the accuracy of its furnishing of consumer information to CRAs and its policies and
procedures relating to credit reporting and dispute investigation. These required steps
include conducting monthly reviews of account information to assess the accuracy and
integrity of information it furnishes. Afni must also conduct monthly reviews of consumer
disputes and responses to assess whether its handling of consumer disputes complies with
the FCRA, Regulation V, and its own policies and procedures. The consent order also
requires Afni to retain an independent consultant to conduct a review of Afni’s activities,
policies, and procedures relating to furnishing information and credit reporting to ensure
that its current policies, practices, and procedures regarding furnishing of consumer
information to CRAs comply with the FCRA and Regulation V.

The consent order is available at: https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_afni-
inc_consent-order_2020-11.pdf [4 (cfpb.gov/documents/9325/cfpb_afni-inc_consent-order
_2020-11.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
