Press Release

SEC Charges Two Former Och-Ziff Executives With FCPA
Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2017-34

Washington D.C., Jan. 26, 2017 — The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged two former executives at Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group with being the driving forces behind a far-reaching bribery scheme that violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).

Och-Ziff and two other executives previously settled charges against them in the case.

The SEC’s complaint filed today alleges that Michael L. Cohen, who headed Och-Ziff’s European office, and an investment executive on Africa-
related deals, Vanja Baros, caused tens of millions of dollars in bribes to be paid to high-level government officials in Africa. Their alleged
misconduct induced the Libyan Investment Authority sovereign wealth fund to invest in Och-Ziff managed funds. Cohen and Baros also
allegedly directed illicit efforts to secure mining deals to benefit Och-Ziff by directing bribes to corruptly influence government officials in
Chad, Niger, Guinea, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

“As alleged in our complaint, Cohen and Baros were the masterminds of Och-Ziff’s bribery scheme that improperly used investor funds to pay
bribes through agents and partners to officials at the highest levels of foreign governments,” said Kara Brockmeyer, Chief of the SEC’s FCPA
Unit.

The SEC’s complaint charges Cohen and Baros with violating the FCPA and Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act, and aiding and
abetting Och-Ziff’s violations. Cohen also is charged with violating Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Investment Advisers Act. The SEC is
seeking monetary penalties against Cohen and Baros among other remedies.

The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Neil Smith and Paul Block of the FCPA Unit and Rory Alex of the Boston Regional Office. The
litigation is being led by Marc Jones and Martin Healey of the Boston office. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the Fraud Section of the
U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the
Internal Revenue Service’s Criminal Investigations Division. The SEC also appreciates the assistance of the United Kingdom's Financial
Conduct Authority as well as the Guernsey Financial Services Commission, Jersey Financial Services Commission, Malta Financial Services
Authority, Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission, Gibraltar Financial Services Commission, and Swiss Ministry of Justice.

HH

Related Materials

e SEC Complaint
