Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 21920 / April 7, 2011

Securities and Exchange Commission v. Comverse Technology, Inc.,
Case No. 11-CV-1704-LDW (E.D.N.Y. filed April 7, 2011)

SEC FILES SETTLED FCPA CASE AGAINST COMVERSE

The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed a settled enforcement
action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York against
Comverse Technology, Inc., alleging violations of the books and records and
internal controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”).
Comverse has offered to pay a total of approximately $1.6 million in
disgorgement and prejudgment interest to the SEC. Comverse’s proposed
settlement offer has been submitted to the Court for its consideration. Ina
related action, Comverse will pay a $1.2 million criminal fine to the U.S.
Department of Justice.

The SEC’s complaint alleges that:

e Between 2003 and 2006, Comverse Limited, an Israeli operating
subsidiary of Comverse, made improper payments to obtain or retain
business. In particular, Comverse Limited made improper payments of
approximately $536,000 to individuals connected to OTE, a
telecommunications provider based in Athens, Greece that is partially
owned by the Greek Government. These payments resulted in contracts
worth approximately $10 million in revenues and ill-gotten gain of
approximately $1.2 million.

e In order to facilitate and conceal the payments, Comverse Limited
employed a third-party agent to establish an offshore entity in Cyprus
which, in turn, funneled the improper payments to Comverse Limited’s
customers. Comverse Limited employees made payments to the
agent’s offshore entity and, after taking 15% off the top of these
payments, the agent paid the remaining 85% in cash bribes, directly or
indirectly, to Comverse Limited’s customers.

e These payments were improperly recorded on Comverse’s books and
records as “agent commissions,” and in addition, Comverse failed to
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient
to provide reasonable assurances that transactions at all levels of the
organization were properly recorded. For example, neither Comverse
nor Comverse Limited had a process, formal or otherwise, for
conducting due diligence of sales agents or for the independent review
of agent contracts outside the sales departments.

Without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, Comverse has consented
to a conduct-based injunction that prohibits Comverse from having books and
records that do not accurately reflect, or from having internal controls that do
not prevent or detect, any illegal payments made to obtain or retain business.
In addition, Comverse consented to pay $1,249,614 in disgorgement and
$358,887 in prejudgment interest.

The SEC acknowledges the assistance of DO} in its investigation.

» SEC Complaint

http. /www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2011/lr21920.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 04/07/2011
