cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Mortgage Servicer for Illegal
Practices that Impeded Borrowers’ Attempts to Avoid Foreclosure

DEC 18, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against Seterus, Inc. (Seterus) and Kyanite Services, Inc. (Kyanite), as Seterus’s
successor in interest, based on the Bureau’s finding that Seterus violated the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA) and Regulation X. The Bureau found that Seterus’s
actions resulted in delaying or depriving some borrowers of a reasonable opportunity to
get their loss mitigation applications completed and evaluated and in some borrowers
failing to timely receive protections against prohibited foreclosure activities to which they
were legally entitled.

The consent order addresses widespread failures in Seterus’s handling and processing of
struggling homeowners’ applications for loss mitigation options, which are alternatives to
foreclosure made available through their servicer. The consent order requires Kyanite, as
Seterus’s successor in interest, to pay consumer redress and a civil money penalty. The
consent order requires Kyanite to pay $4,932,525 in total redress to approximately 11,866
of the consumers to whom Seterus sent a defective acknowledgment notice. The consent
order also imposes a $500,000 civil money penalty and includes injunctive relief that would
apply in the event Kyanite engages in mortgage servicing.

As a mortgage servicer, Seterus was responsible for collecting borrower applications for
these programs, communicating with borrowers regarding their applications, determining
eligibility, and implementing loss mitigation programs for qualified borrowers. At its height,
Seterus, a former mortgage servicer based in North Carolina, serviced approximately
500,000 residential mortgage loans. Seterus is no longer operating. On Feb. 28, 2019, after
the relevant period covered by the Bureau’s investigation, Seterus was sold and its entire
mortgage servicing portfolio was transferred to Nationstar Mortgage LLC, doing business as
Mr. Cooper.

The Bureau found that Seterus, which used automated processes for handling loss
mitigation applications, committed unfair acts and practices in violation of the CFPA by
systematically failing to accurately review, process, track, and communicate to borrowers
information regarding their applications. The Bureau found that Seterus also engaged in
deceptive acts and practices in violation of the CFPA by sending numerous borrowers
acknowledgment notices regarding their applications that misrepresented the status of
borrower documents and provided inaccurate due dates for submission of borrower
documents.

The Bureau found that Seterus violated Regulation X, which implements the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act, by sending numerous acknowledgment notices that failed to
state the additional documents and information borrowers needed to submit to complete
their loss mitigation applications or failed to provide a reasonable due date for submission
of borrower documents. The Bureau also found that Seterus violated Regulation X by not
exercising reasonable diligence in obtaining documents and information necessary to
complete borrowers’ loss mitigation applications and by failing to properly evaluate
borrowers who submitted complete loss mitigation applications for all loss mitigation
options available to the borrower. The Bureau further found that Seterus failed to treat
certain applications as “facially complete” when required under Regulation X. These
violations also constitute violations of the CFPA.

Seterus sent out thousands of defective acknowledgment notices between 2014 and 2018.
As a result of Seterus’s violations, some borrowers were delayed or deprived of a
reasonable opportunity to get their loss mitigation applications completed and evaluated,
and were delayed in receiving or deprived of the protections against prohibited foreclosure
activities to which they were entitled under Regulation X. Some borrowers suffered
improper foreclosure activity as a result. Borrowers also incurred injuries such as negative
credit reporting, additional late fees, and additional interest as a result of defective
acknowledgment notices that delayed or impaired their ability to obtain the benefits of a
loss mitigation option.

To read the consent order click here:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_seterus-inc_consent-order_2020-

 

tnt

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
