2020-BCFP-0025 Document1 Filed 12/21/2020 Page 1 of 31

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File No.
2020-BCFP- 0025

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Envios de Valores la Nacional Corp.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
remittance transfer activities of Envios de Valores La Nacional Corp. (La
Nacional) (Respondent, as defined below) and has identified violations of the
Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA), 15 U.S.C. § 1693 et seg., and its
implementing Regulation E, 12 C.F.R. Part 1005, Subpart B (known as the
Remittance Rule). Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the Consumer Financial Protection
Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent

Order (Consent Order).
Jurisdiction
The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, and § 919 of EFTA, 15 U.S.C. § 16930.
Il.
Stipulation
Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consentto the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated December 14, 2020 (Stipulation), which is
incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation,
Respondent has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the
Bureau under §§ 1053 and 1055 ofthe CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565,
without adm itting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of
law, except that Respondent and admits the facts necessary to establish the
Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondent andthe subject matter of this action.
HII.
Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
a. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is

issued.
AA PPP ee
. HPO.RCE eo AALS

athe A A

a
e
Le
oe
oy
12
von,
leo

“Board” means Respondent’s duly elected and acting Board of
Directors.

“Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the Northeast
Region for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, or his or her delegate.

“Related Consumer Action” meansa private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent
Order.

‘Respondent’ means Envios de Valores La Nacional Corp. and its

successors and assigns.
AAA RE Pere rp ee mo -. Lot reek ek Eek CE Td ek Poa « cod
SOO REE BOOS Macument 7 mila TOPO Tie geg Pane do af 84
ae We Pe Pt Bt Ra Ra PE PoetAw Ad ie bbe f Po GAM Mat

IV.

Bureau Findings and Conclusions
The Bureau finds the following:

Background
Respondent La Nacional is a non-bank remittance provider incorporated in
New York and headquartered in Colorado that conducts the majority of its
business in the greater New York metropolitan area. La Nacional’s primary
business is to provide intemational money transfers, including remittance
transfers.
Respondent is licensed in 33 states and the District of Columbia and
provides remittance transfers from the United States to designated recipients
located primarily in the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Guatemala, El
Salvador, Ecuador, Colombia, Peru, Nigeria, Honduras, and Nicaragua.
Respondent provides these transfers through a network of branches and
agents.
Respondent’s remittancetransfers involve transmitting funds and constitute
payment services. These services are offered to consumers primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes. The services are therefore

“consumer financial product[s] or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C.

§ 5481(6), (15)(A)(iv), (15)(A)(vii).
"> rat y QQ ; ed of a 3 n fn ’ "3 g
he a AP Ned 3

7. Respondent is also a remittance transfer provider under EFTA and
Regulation E because it provides remittance transfers for consumers in the
normal course of its business. 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(g)(3); 12 C.F.R.

§ 1005.30(f).

8. In 2010, EFTA was amended by adding § 919 to create a comprehensive
system of consumer protections for remittance transfers sent by U.S.
consumers to individuals and businesses in foreign countries. Section 919
includes anumber of requirements related to remittance transfers, including

that:

e remittance transfer providers must disclose the amount to be
received, thecurrency, and the date of availability, both before and
at the time the consumer pays for the transfer, 15 U.S.C.
§ 16930-1(a)(1) & (2);

e consumers have certain rights regarding cancellation and refunds,
15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(d);

e remittance transfer providers must investigate disputes and remedy
errors regarding remittances, 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1(d); and

e remittance transfer providers are liable for certain acts of their
agents, 15 U.S.C. § 16300-1(f).

9. The Bureau issued rules to implement these requirements, which became
effective on October 28, 2013. These rules are known as the Remittance

Rule.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

AAASA RU AAAS my ak ett ae EN mo
SOO REE BOOS Macument 7 Bile Te fOo df O8G Dare
ae We Pe Pt Bt Ra Ra PE PRGA Paha bee fn Nat bo CAM

Respondent provides remittance transfers to consumers using its retail
branches and a network of agents across the United States.

As of October 28, 2013, the effective date of the Remittance Rule,
Respondent has been subject to the requirements of EFTA and the
Remittance Rule.

Respondent failed to adequately comply with many ofthe Remittance Rule’s
requirements.

Respondent violated § 1005.34(a) by
failing to honor cancellation requests and
failing to provide cancellation rights

Section 1005.34 of the Remittance Rule requires remittance transfer
providers to honor any oral or written request to cancel a remittance transfer
from the sender that is received by the provider no later than 30 minutes
after the sender makes payment, provided that the request enables the
provider to identify pertinent information about the transfer, andthe funds
have not been received by the designated recipient.

Section 1005.34(b) also requires remittance transfer providers to refund, at
no additional cost to the consumer, the total amount of funds provided by the
sender in connection with a remittance transfer, including any fees and, to

the extent not prohibited by law, taxes imposed in connection with the
15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

AAASA RU AAAS wy a ett ae EN mo et a
SOO REE BOOS Macument 7 Bile Te fOo df O8G Pane - of 34
ae We Pe Pt Bt Ra Ra PE PRGA Paha bee fs PO CAMS OF OMFE ae E

remittance transfer, within three business days of receiving a properly-
asserted cancellation request.

From the effective date of the Remittance Rule through at least April 2019,
Respondent failed to honor consumers’ properly-asserted cancellation
requests, andto provide refunds as a result of those requests, unless the
consumer appeared in person at the originating branch or agent location to
cancel their remittancetransfers.

From the effective date of the Remittance Rule through at least April 2019,
Respondent also failed to provide the 30-minute cancellation window to
consumers, and failed to provide a refund as a result of a properly-asserted
cancellation request, in instances where the originating branch or agent
location closed less than 30 minutes after the consumer initiated the transfer.
Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.34(a).

Respondent violated §§ 1005.33(g)(1) and (g)(2)
by failing to develop and maintain policies and procedures
for error resolution under the Remittance Rule

Section 1005.33(g)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires remittance transfer
providers to develop and maintain written policies and procedures that are
designed to ensure compliance with the Rule’s error resolution requirements.
Section 1005.33(g)(2) further requires that these policies and procedures

ensure theretention of any notices of error submitted by a remittance sender,
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

AAA PPP AAA om . 4 ett ae EN me NA
BOCOREE BOOS Macument 7 Bile Te fOo df O8G Parc BR yf 34
he LP I NE Pd Bact ho ALR Gar yk PRP Fe a PP ee PoGta ee BE OME :

any documentation provided by the sender to the provider with respect to the
alleged error, and the provider’s findings.

From the effective date of the Remittance Rule through at least April 2019,
Respondent’s written policies and procedures did not reference the
requirements for complying with the error resolution requirements in the
Remittance Rule; did not set forth how Respondent’s employees and agents
should identify errors; did not define the types of records to be maintained;
and did not specify the length of time for which such records must be
maintained.

Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.33(g)(1) and (g)(2).

Respondent violated § 1005.33(c)(1) by failing
to investigate and make error determinations

Section 1005.33(c)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires a remittance transfer
provider, in response to a consumer’s properly-asserted error notice, to
investigate promptly and determine whether an error occurred, as defined
under section 1005.33(a)(1)(i)-(v).

Since the effective date of the Remittance Rule, Respondent has failed to
investigate promptly and determine whether an error, as defined under the
Remittance Rule, occurred.

Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(c)1).
25.

26.

27.

28.

AAS APE, OR ~~ C4 were 3 me »~ o~ oN A
AAG RES AAG Macmireeant 4 ited TO POA PEON Marea GO et 34
Ca ae OF dn 3 ee ld OT Boag Parse REGRET ery Behe ete SLOT ee ee ;
She ad BP et NE ae Bae Soe Rant % Agatha og PoePA Ad oe bP ee Bo Gtk wh RAE we F

Respondent violated § 1005.33(d) by failing
to provide written reports of its investigation findings

Section 1005.33(c)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires that, when a
consumer alleges that a remittance transfer provider committed an error, the
provider must promptly investigate the alleged error and provide the results
of its investigation to the sender within three business days after completing
its investigation. Ifthe provider determines that an error occurred as alleged
by the sender, the investigation results may be provided orally. 12 C.F.R.

§ 1005.31(a)(4). However, ifthe investigation finds no error or finds an
error different from the one alleged, the provider must provide the sender
with a written explanation. 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(d).

Since the effective date of the Remittance Rule, Respondent has failed to
provide consumers with written reports of its investigation findings where
no error occurred, ora different error occurred than the one identified in the
sender’s notice of error.

Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(d).

Respondent violated § 1005.33(c)(2)(ii)
by failing to refund certain fees and taxes

Section 1005.33(c)(2)(i1) of the Remittance Rule requires a remittance

transfer provider to refund transaction fees and taxes to a sender when the
29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

AAA PFOA, Ama oa cA pay SONI AOI on ar mo
250A Beem AMOS Peek crescendo Clad 4°39 94 fFOOGN Preece, AM at 2-7
eed bebe opr beta Hoo} Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas Sos ew tg rtd Pe ed Se rid ey 4
Sa teed ONE het BA AEN Pa PikaAs al he PPS rae) : ghee fA A 23

provider fails to make funds available to the designated recipient by the
availability date on the receipt.

Since the effective date of the Remittance Rule, Respondent has failed to
refund fees and taxes to senders in instances where funds did not become
available to designated recipients by the date identified in the receipts.
Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.33(c)(2)(i1).

Respondent violated $$ 1005.31-36 by failing
to treat international bill pay services as remittance transfers

Section 1005.30(e)(1) of the Remittance Rule establishes that for a service to
qualify as a remittance transfer: (1) there must be an electronic transfer of
funds; (2) thetransfer must be requested by a sender in the United States; (3)
the transfer must be sent to a designated recipient; (4) it must be sent by a
remittance transfer provider.

Respondent offered an international bill payment service that permitted
consumers in the United States to transfer funds to a designated recipient
outside of the country, through the recipient’s account with a commercial
entity such as a utility.

From the effective date of the Remittance Rule until September 2019,
Respondent failed to treat its international bill pay services as remittances

covered by the Remittance Rule.
34.

35.

36.

37.

PAA FEE OA ~~ . oA pansy ee a a Aw ONS
SOOO Dre m Amos Pree ey ceed of Clad 4°39 94 fFOOGN Bheewes ft at 2 ft
eed bebe opr beta Hoo} POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PETERS OG ee be etd Be et pees of Fe NY
Bon dl ate RU Ra od an ot bel At | BO Pee OF es PP ee 5 aA ook ERP wd

Therefore, Respondent violated the disclosure requirements and failed to
provide the substantive rights in the Remittance Rule, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.3 1-
36.
Respondent violated §§ 1005.31(b)(1) (ii) and 1005.31(b)(2)(i)
by issuing some prepayment disclosures and receipts that failed to
disclose the appropriate currency of the remittance transfer to be received
Section 1005.31 of the Remittance Rule requires a remittance transfer
provider to provide a sender with (1) a written prepayment disclosure with
information about the remittance transfer, and (2) a written receipt that
includes the information provided in the prepayment disclosure plus the
promised date of delivery, contact information for the designated recipient,
and information regarding certain sender rights.
Section 1005.3 1(b)(1)(vii) describes the substantive disclosure requirements
for prepayment disclosures, and section 1005.3 1(b)(2)(i) describes the
requirements for receipts, including the requirementthat providers disclose
to a sender “the amount that will be received by the designated recipient, in
the currency in which the funds will be received” in prepayment disclosures
and receipts.

Since the effective date of the Remittance Rule, some of Respondent’s

prepayment disclosures and receipts have failed to specify the currency in
38.

39.

40.

4].

42.

which certain remittance transfers would be received, instead using the term
‘National Currency.”
Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.31(b)(1 (vi) and
1005.31(b)(2)(i).
Respondent violated §§ 1005.31(b)(1) (ii) and
1005.31(b)(2) (i) by failing to use the term “transfer fees”
or a substantially similar term in some disclosures
Sections 1005.31(b)(1)(i1) and(b)(2)() of the Remittance Rule requires that
remittance transfer prepayment disclosures and receipts disclose to the
sender any fees imposed on the remittance transfer by the provider, in the
currency in which the remittance transfer is funded, using the term “Transfer
Fees” or a substantially similar term.
Since the effective date of the Remittance Rule, Respondent’s prepayment
disclosures andreceipts used theterms “Telex,” “Omission,” and
“Handling,” to describe the fees it charged to consumers.
“Telex,” “Omission,” and “Handling” are not substantially similar to
“Transfer Fees.”
Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. §§ 1005.31(b)(1 (1) and (b)(2)(1).
Respondent violated §§ 1005.3 1(b)(2)(ii)

by issuing some receipts that failed to disclose the date on
which remittance transfers would be available for pick-up
43.

44.

45.

46.

Section 1005.3 1(b)(2)(1) of the Remittance Rule requires receipts issued by
remittance providers to disclose to a sender the date on which funds will be
available to the designated recipient in the foreign country, using the term
“Date Available” or a substantially similar term.
Since the effective date of the Remittance Rule, some of Respondent’s
receipts have failed to identify the date on which the remittance transfers
would be available for pick-up by the designated recipients.
Therefore, Respondent violated 12 C.F.R. § 1005.31(b\(2)(i1).
CONDUCT PROVISIONS
V.
Prohibited Conduct
IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:
Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with the provision of remittancetransfers are
prohibited from offering or providing remittance transfers without
complying with the cancellation and refund provisions of the Remittance

Rule, 12 C.F.R. § 1005.34, including but not limited to:
47.

ARAN SES AMA PN oe a emey at GE
POOL RCE DIAM Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan t3fO4 Foe
on Sf thn RP Ba LE tat BaP ASP ETA eR OT hives ms kat ow SF

a. the requirement that remittance transfer providers honor any oral or
written properly asserted cancellation request that is received by the
provider no later than 30 minutes after the sender makes payment; and

b. the requirement that remittance transfer providers refund, at no additional
cost to the consumer, the total amount of funds provided by the sender in
connection with a remittance transfer, including any fees and, tothe
extent not prohibited by law, taxes imposed in connection with the
remittance transfer, within three business days of receiving a properly
asserted cancellation request.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the provision of remittancetransfers are
prohibited from offering or providing remittance transfers without

complying with the error-resolution requirements of the Remittance Rule, 12

C.F.R. § 1005.33, including but not limited to:

a. the requirement that remittance transfer providers investigate promptly
and determine whether an error occurred in response to a consumer’s

properly asserted error notice;
48.

ARAN RAPER ANAr PN oe a emey at GE
POS ORE RELOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad t3/ed7 feoeo
on at te PE ae BA AEN Pa PikaAs wo AF AS

b. the requirement to provide the sender with a written explanation ifthe
investigation finds no error or finds an error different from the one

alleged in the consumer’s properly asserted error notice; and

c. the requirement that remittance transfer provider refund transaction fees

and taxes to a sender when the provider fails to make funds available to

the designated recipient by the availability date on the receipt.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with the provision of remittancetransfers are
prohibited from offering or providing remittance transfers without
complying with the disclosure requirements of the Remittance Rule, 12
C.F.R. § 1005.31, including but not limited to:

a. the requirement that remittance transfer prepayment disclosures and
receipts disclose “the amount that will be received by the designated
recipient, in the currency in which the funds will be recetved;”

b. the requirement that remittance transfer prepayment disclosures and
receipts disclose any fees imposed on the remittance transfer by the
provider, in the currency in which the remittance transfer is funded, using

the term “Transfer Fees” or a substantially similarterm; and
49.

50.

PAA FEE OA ~~ . oA pansy ee a ax Ae ONS
SOOO Dre m Amos Peek crescendo iad 4°99 FO 4 FS OOA Meese TE at 24
eed bebe opr beta Hoo} POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PPE ee oe be et hee eg Pe et pees OF SE ON
Bon at a PU RP Dd San tat RPA TAS Pd POPPA Fase Pr ee : Sie Xa oD

c. the requirement that remittance transfer prepayment disclosures and
receipts disclose the dateon which funds will be available to the
designated recipient in the foreign country, using theterm “Date
Available” or a substantially similar term.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the provision of remittance transfers are
prohibited from offering or providing international bill-payment services as

remittance transfers without com plying with EFTA, 15 U.S.C. § 16930-1,

and the Remittance Rule, 12 C.F.R. $$ 1005.31-36.

Respondent, in connection with the provision of remittance transfers, must:

a. implement and maintain written policies and procedures designed to
ensure compliance with the Remittance Rule;

b. maintainacompliance management system that is designed to ensure
that Respondent’s operations comply with the Remittance Rule,
including conducting training and oversight of all agents, employees,
and service providers that is designed to ensure compliance with the

Remittance Rule;
S1.

52.

ARAN RAPER ANAr PN oe a enh ot AAPA PT mh. AY EM
POS ORE RELOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad t3/ed7 feoeo Pace Ty of 34
Bad ae MRP De fan foal BA AEN Pa POPS of a PP ee : Lege OF Ft we

C. conduct training and oversight of all agents, employees, and service
providers that is reasonable designed to ensure compliance with the
Remittance Rule.

VI.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
remittance transfer acts and practices comply with all applicable federal
consumer-financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance
Plan). The Compliance Plan must include, at aminimum, detailed steps for
addressing each action required by this Consent Order and specific
timeframes and deadlines for implementing those steps.

The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If the
Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must makethe revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to

the Regional Director within 30 days.
53.

54.

55.

56.

ARAN RAPER ANAr PN oe a enh ot AAPA PT mo A A
POS ORE RELOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad t3/ed7 feoeo Pade 1&8 af 34
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE tat BA AEN Pa POPS of a PP ee : Lag kek Lat PS

After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a
determ ination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhereto the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
VIL.

Role of the Board
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The Board must review all submissions (including plans, reports, programs,
policies, and procedures) required by this Consent Order prior to submission
to the Bureau.
Although this Consent Order requires Respondentto submit certain
documents for the review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the
Board will have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound
management of Respondent and for ensuring that Respondent complies with
the laws that the Bureau enforces, including federal consumer financial laws
and this Consent Order.
In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure
adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondent, the Board must:
a. authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondentto fully

comply with the Consent Order;
57.

58.

59.

b. — require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of
compliance obligations; and
C. require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any
material non-compliance with any failuresto comply with Board
directives related to this Section.
VIII.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason ofthe
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, andtaking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $750,000 to the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) ofthe CFPA,

12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
60.

61.

POA OPS AE RO em ~~ . oA pea y ea ee a Pe ONS
SOOO Dre m Amos Pree ey ceed of Clad 4°39 94 fFOOGN Bye ewes TO at 2 ft
eed bebe opr beta Hoo} POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PPE ee oe be et hee eg Pe et pest Fb Se ON
Bon dl ate RU Ra tan tad BaP AS SPEER Pkg BO Pee OF es PP ee 3 Rage Say PE PF

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil money
penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondentis entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of

a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
62.

63.

64.

65.

AAAM PAE AMA wy cA puss SN A Ee on ~~ Ne
2OOHL RE RAGA Miners t fF Cilae 439294 (OAH Merwe Bet at 24
Sao Te WA at BA AEN Pa POR RS! fal PP ala : she ab Leb wed

amountof the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amountofthe civil money penalty imposed in this action.

IX.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part ofthe funds may be
returnedto Respondent.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification number, which may be used
for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising
out of this Consent Order.
Within 30 days of the entry ofa final judgment, consent order, or settlement

in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional
66.

67.

ARAN RAPER ANAr PN oe a emey at GE
POS ORE RELOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad t3/ed7 feoeo
on at te PE ae BA AEN Pa PikaAs wo AF AS

Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amountof redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describethe consumers or classes of
consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

X.

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; thecreation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s nameor
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:
68.

69.

ARAR RAS AMA ~ Loa my AINA Pe -~ os cm
POOR CE RLS Pocument 7 Pidacd TDfeTfeoeo Pane SS af 34
Bad ae MRP De x she at BA AEN Pa PEMA! bee Pau : Lage Lat PS

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

C. describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under 465 at least 30 days before the change or as soon as

practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to

the Regional Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by the Board, sworn to under

penalty of perjury, which, at aminimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and

describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
70.

71.

72.

POA OPS AE RO em ~~ . oA pea y ea ee ax ar es
SHO OP rm Ave Mra inscant 4 CHa 49°79 4 (Oy Dawes TA al 24
eed bebe opr beta Hoo} POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PETERS OG ee be etd PY atti test of bt ,
Ban St at LU AP od Sin tot Be AS Pe kd Bo oPee et nl tn iF < ; 3 2 at yo4

complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;
b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan; and
C. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XI, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
XI.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well
as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.
For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure

referred to in Section X, any future board members and executive officers,
73.

74.

75.

AAA PPAR Ame ~~ toa peg NN A Pee a ~e ana
POOL ROE DLAs Paciiyent 4 Sila P3fo 7 Feaaen Bare OR af 24
MPR TELS Le PG WA at BAAR kd PoP Pal rr aea PO SRLS aot Al ad

as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with alist ofall persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 71-72 and acopy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under
Paragraph 73.
XII.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must create and retain the following business records:
a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance

with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions

to the Bureau;
70.

TT,

ARAN RAPER ANAr PN oe a enh ot AAPA PT mo EA
POS ORE RELOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad t3/ed7 feoeo Pana @S af 34
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE tat BA AEN Pa POPS of a PP ee : Ang Ae ae Lat PS

b. — templates ofall prepayment disclosures, receipts, and combined
disclosures, along with records sufficient to demonstrate the dates and
locations in which each template was in use and the number of
consumers whoreceived each template; and

C. all consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received
directly or indirectly, such as through athird party), and any responses
to those complaints or requests.

Respondent must makethe documents identified in § 75 available to the

Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIII.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “In re
Envios de Valores La Nacional Corp., File No. 2020-BCFP-0025 ” and
send them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforeement_Compliance @cfpb.gov and to:

Regional Director, Northeast Region

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

140 East 45th Street, 4th Floor
New York, NY 10017
78.

79.

80.

AMA MIE ARAM PN oe a ety ANNA EPR mh oY EA
POOL RCE DIAM Pinaciirpaent 4 Blan dO fod Fanon Maen OF af 24
SNP eM Pee E She tad BP ASLP PERG Gk og SoPieka of wl. PP eWes 3 Lhe oe FASE yo

XV.
Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 30 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements; or produce documents related to requirements of this Consent
Order and Respondent’s compliance with those requirements.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview, about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements, any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory

process.
81.

82.

83.

ARAN RAE ARE ~ . 4 ote RN A ER
2OOHL RE RAGA Mie issycinmt 4 Cilae 439294 (OAH
Sn St en LS et tat RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PORN fat iP cl

XVI.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.
The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) ifhe or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Regional
Director must be in writing.
XVII.
Administrative Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as
described in 4 84. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this
Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any other person or

governmental agency from taking any action against Respondent.
84.

85.

86.

AMA MIE ARAM PN oe a mnt AEN I mh OMEN EA
POOL RCE DIAM Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan t3fO4 Foe Marne PO af 24
Bea ME ED she tat Ret AE PPR EEG SPEIRS Fe PP ee 4 Awe Sr

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and
their affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice
of violations or the continuation ofa pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except
to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated

agent.
87.

88.

89.

90.

91.

ARAA RARE AAMAS ~*~ a oe NN A Ee o~ ~~ ~ oy
SOA RE AMA Phevesirpvcant 4 Cian 49/34 (een Bian RO af 24
eS a SER POT set BALE EASE ERT PoP Pal rr aea Po CARS 3 wah whos

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should any Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations
that are subject to this Consent Order, that Respondent must, as a condition
of sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply
with all applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amountof civil money penalties allowed under §1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c).

In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce this Consent Order
in federal district court, the Bureau may serve Respondent wherever
Respondent may be found and Respondent may not contest that court’s
personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accom panying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written

communications, discussions, or understandings.
2020-BCFP-0025 Document1 Filed 12/21/2020 Page 31 of 31

92. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent or their Board, officers, or employees to

violate any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this | ee of December, 2020.

dithlear (aap

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

3]
