UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA
: CASE No&13-cv-00092-RLV-DSC

 

)
U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES )
TRADING COMMISSION, )
)
Plaintiff, )
)
v. )
) FILED
CARL DAVID WRIGHT, ) CHARLOTTE, NC
) amar:
Defendant. ) JUN LE 205
) Ss, OYSTRICT COURT
) WESTERN DISTRICT OF NC
)

 

SUPPLEMENTAL ORDER ASSESSING
CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY AGAINST
DEFENDANT CARL DAVID WRIGHT

On June 24, 2013, Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission (““CFTC” or
“Commission”) filed a Complaint for Injunctive and Other Equitable Relief and Penalties Under
the Commodity Exchange Act (“Complaint”) against Defendant Carl David Wright (“Wright”)
for Permanent Injunction, Civil Penalties, and Other Equitable Relief, for violations of the
Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act”), 7 U.S.C. §§1 et seg. (2012) and the Commission’s
Regulations (“Regulations”) promulgated thereunder, 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.1 ef seg. (2014). On
October 28, 2014, the Court entered a Consent Order for Permanent Injunction and Other
Equitable Relief Against Defendant David Carl Wright (“Consent Order”) (ECF # 6) that
reserved issues of monetary relief for further order. The Commission now moves for entry of an

order assessing restitution and a civil monetary penalty against Wright.

Case 5:13
Case §:18-

 
  

-00092-RLV-DSC Docume

HO092-RLV-DSC Docume

   

1 Filed 02/18/15 Page 1of5
2 Filed OG/11/15 Page Taf

 

 

 
I. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS

The Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law contained in the Consent Order are |
incorporated herein by reference.and given preclusive effect as provided in the Consent Order

i. RESTITUTION AND CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT Wright shall comply fully with the following terms,
conditions, and obligations relating to the payment of restitution and civil monetary penalty.
A. Restitution
1 Wright’s violations of the Act and Regulations merit the award of restitution.
However, this Court recognizes that in a related criminal action, entitled United States v, Wright,
13-cr-00186 (W.D.N.C), the court has ordered that the Defendant pay restitution in the amount
of eight hundred seventeen thousand nine hundred and seventy-five dollars ($817,975) to the

defrauded participants of the Defendant in connection with the same conduct at issue in this

 

action. (See Dkt. #19, Judgment, November 24, 2014) Accordingly, restitution is not ordered in
this action. 4
B. Civil Monetary Penalty
2. Wright shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000) (“CMP Obligation”), plus post-judgment interest. Post-judgment interest shall

accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Supplemental Order and

 

shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this
Supplemental Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

3. Wright shall pay his CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be
made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the

Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

2

Case 5:13

02/18/15. Page 2 of :
case STS. 1 Oe/4 Brae. Page 2.918 «

  
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables

DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ--341CFTC/CPSC/SEC

500 S. MacArthur Blvd. Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax

nikki.gibson@faa.gov
If payment by electronic funds transfer is chosen, Wright shall contact Nikki Gibson or her
successor at the address above to receive payment instructions and shall fully comply with those
instructions. Wright shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that
identifies the name and docket number of this proceeding. Wright shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20581,

Cc. Provisions Related to Monetary Sanctions

4. Partial Satisfaction: Any acceptance by the Commission or the Monitor of partial
payment of Wright’s Restitution Obligation or CMP Obligation shall not be deemed:a waiver of
his obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Supplemental Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

5. Wright shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission, including
the Division of Enforcement, and any other governmental agency in this action, and in any
investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to the subject matter of this action
or any current or future Commission investigation related thereto. As part of such cooperation,
Wright shall comply, to the full extent of his ability, promptly and truthfully with any inquiries
or requests for information, including, but not limited to, requests for production of documents

and authentication of documents, and shall provide assistance at any trial, proceeding, or

3

SOSERN BSE POMUNENTTS Flee ABP PaggS OF? s

    

 

 
investigation related to the subject matter of this action, including, but not limited to, requests for
testimony, depositions, and/or interviews. Should the Commission file any additional action(s)
related to the subject matter of this action, Wright is directed to appear in the judicial district in -
which such action(s) is pending, or in a suitable judicial district agreed to by the parties, to
provide deposition testimony and trial testimony should such testimony be necessary.
Il. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
6. Notice: All notices required to be given by any provisions in this Supplemental
Order shall be sent certified mail, return receipt requested as follows:
Notice to Commission:
Regional Counsel, Division of Enforcement
U.S, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
525 West Monroe Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, Illinois 60661
Notice to Defendant:
Carl David Wright, Register Number: 7041 1-056
FCI Butner Medium I
Old NC Hwy 75
Butner, NC 27509
All such notices to the Commission shall reference the name and docket number of this action.
7. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Wright satisfies in full his CMP
Obligation as set forth in this Supplemental Order, Wright shall provide written notice to the
Commission by certified mail of any change to his telephone number and mailing address within
ten (10) calendar days of the change.

8. Invalidation: If any provision of this Supplemental Order or if the application of

any provision or circumstance is held invalid, then the remainder of this Supplemental Order and

4

SSERW-BSE BRAS

 

f

  

Teh PRES SPRL PARSE PL? 5

 

 
the application of the provision to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected by the
holding.

9. Waiver: The failure of any party to this Supplemental Order or of any participant
at any time to require performance of any provision of this Supplemental Order shall in no
manner affect the right of the party or participant at a later time to enforce the same or any other
provision of this Supplemental Order. No waiver in one or more instances of the breach of any
provision contained in this Supplemental Order shall be deemed to be or construed as ‘a further or
continuing waiver of such breach or waiver of the breach of any other provision of this
Supplemental Order.

10. Continuing Jurisdiction of this Court: This Court shall retain jurisdiction of the
action to ensure compliance with this Supplemental Order and for all other purposes related to
this action.

11. ~The provisions of this Supplemental Order shall be binding upon defendant
Wright, upon any person under his authority or control, and upon any person who receives actual
notice of this Supplemental Order, by personal service, e-mail, facsimile or otherwise insofar as
he or she is acting in active concert or participation with defendant.

There being no just reason for delay, the Clerk of the Court is hereby directed to enter

this Supplemental Order Assessing Restitution and a Civil Monetary Penalty Against Defendant

  
 
 

 

Carl David Wright.
IT IS SO ORDERED. {
[VapPisticr Coupons
Sans
5
_Case_5:13-cv-0009 /-DSC D 1 Ei 8/15 Page 5,0f8
Case SUS-cv-O0092-RLY-DSC Documentle Filed OOf1/15 Page 505

  

 

 

 

 

 
