Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Documenti Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 1 of 27

In the United States District Court
for the District of Colorado

Civil Action No.

U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION,
Plaintiff,

Vy.

GREGORY L. GRAMALEGUI,
Defendant.

 

COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF, RESTITUTION, |
CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES, AND EQUITABLE RELIEF UNDER THE
COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT

 

Plaintiff U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission alleges as follows:
I. SUMMARY

I. From at least 2006 to the present, Defendant Gregory L. Gramalegui

 

(“Defendant”), doing business as Emini Trading School (“ETS”), has offered for sale to clients a
trading system and advisory service for trading the E-mini S&P 500 futures contract (“e-mini”),
A trading system is a methodology for determining when to enter and exit a trade, among other
things.

2. On July 12, 2001, Plaintiff U.S. Commodity Futures Trading-Commission
(“Commission”), the independent federal agency charged with enforcing the Commodity
Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 8§ | ef seg. (2012) (“Act”) and the Regulations promulgated thereunder,
17 C.F.R. §§ 1.1 et seg. (2015) (“Regulations”), issued an order, filing and simultaneously

settling, an administrative proceeding against Defendant, CFTC Docket No. 01-16 (“Order”),

 

 

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 2 of 27

The Order addressed Defendant’s conduct in operating a prior business, S&P Safe Co., which
also offered a trading system to clients for trading futures contracts.

3. The Commission’s Order contained findings that Defendant made
misrepresentations about his prior trading system, which constituted fraud in violations of 7
USS.C. § 60(1)(B) (2012), and that Defendant failed to provide the disclosure statement required
by 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b) (2015), concerning simulated or hypothetical trading results. The Order
required Defendant, among other things, to cease and desist from those violations and to comply
with undertakings to avoid similar misconduct in the future.

4, Nevertheless, since at least 2006, Defendant has repeatedly violated the Act,
Regulations, and the Order by making misrepresentations to clients about his trading system and
advisory service, in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 60(1); by failing to provide required disclosures
concerning client testimonials and hypothetical or simulated trading results, in violations of 17
C.F.R. § 4.41(a)(3) and (b); and by failing to comply with undertakings required by the Order.

5. In addition, Defendant made false or misleading statements to the Commission
during its investigation of this matter. Defendant falsely stated in sworn testimony that he does
not recommend or identify trades for clients in the Live Trading Room. Defendant also made
material modifications to documents before producing them to the Commission without
informing the Commission that the documents had been modified. These false or misleading
statements and omissions constitute violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(2) (2012).

6. Accordingly, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), the Commission brings this
action to enjoin Defendant’s unlawful acts and practices and to compel his compliance with the

Act, Regulations, and the Order. In addition, the Commission seeks a civil monetary penalty,
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 3 of 27

restitution, and such equitable relief as this Court may deem necessary or appropriate, including
disgorgement of Defendant’s ill-gotten gains.

7. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, Defendant is likely to engage in the
acts and practices alleged in this Complaint or in similar acts and practices.

Il. JURISDICTION AND VENUE

8. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1, which
provides that whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has engaged, is
engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a violations of any provision of
the Act or any rule, regulation or order promulgated thereunder, the Commission may bring an
action in the proper District Court of the United States against such person to enjoin such
practice, or to enforce compliance with the Act, or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder.

9, Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-I(e), because
Defendant is found in, inhabits, or transacts business in the District of Colorado, and the acts and
practices in violations of the Act, Regulations, and the Order have occurred within this District,
among other places.

Il. THE PARTIES

10. Plaintiff U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is the independent
regulatory agency charged with the administration and enforcement of the Act and Regulations.
The Commission is located at 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, DC 20581.

Il. Defendant Gregory L. Gramalegui, an individual, resides in Vail, CO. He has
never been registered with the Commission in any capacity. Since at least 2006, Defendant has

been doing business as ETS.

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 4 of 27

IV. FACTUAL BACKGROUND
A. The Commission’s Order of July 12, 2001

12. Beginning in June 1997, Defendant, doing business as S&P Safe Co., offered a
futures trading system called the Trend Reflection Trading System (“Trend System”). In a series
of magazine advertisements, Defendant made false claims that his mother traded the Trend
System and implied that her trading results were positive. Defendant’s mother, however, never
traded the system; instead, Defendant traded an account in his mother’s name for seven months.
That trading was not profitable but rather sustained a net loss of approximately $6,000.

13. In addition, the trading results that Defendant advertised in connection with the
Trend System were the product of hypothetical, rather than actual, trading, and Defendant
consistently failed to provide the hypothetical trading disclosure statement required by 17 C.F.R.
§ 4.41(b) when displaying those results in magazine advertisements. Defendant’s Internet
website also displayed hypothetical trading results, and while sometimes the website provided
the statement required by 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b), at other times it did not.

14. Based on this conduct, Defendant agreed to the entry of an Order by the
Commission on July 12, 2001, finding that Defendant had, while acting as a commodity trading
advisor (“CTA”), (a) engaged in a “practice or course of business which operates as a fraud or
deceit upon any client or prospective client” in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 60(1)(b), and (b) failed to
provide in marketing materials the disclosure statement required by 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b),
concerning simulated or hypothetical trading results.

15. The Order requires Defendant to cease and desist from violating 7 U.S.C.

§ 60(1)(b) and 17 C.E.R. § 4.41(b).
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Documenti Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 5 of 27

16. | The Order also requires Defendant to comply with the undertakings embodied in
the Order and his Offer of Settlement. In pertinent part, the Order states:

Gramalegui shall not misrepresent, expressly or by implication, the performance,
profits or results achieved by, or the results that can be achieved by users,
including himself, of any commodity futures or options trading system or
advisory service; and the risks associated with trading pursuant to any commodity
futures or options trading system or advisory service.

Order pt. VII.3.A.

Gramalegui shall not present the performance of any simulated or hypothetical
commodity interest account, transaction in a commodity interest account,
transaction in a commodity interest or series of transactions in a commodity
interest unless such performance is accompanied by [the disclosure statement
required by 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b)]. In doing so, Gramalegui shall clearly identify
those hypothetical or simulated performance results which were based, in whole
or in part, on hypothetical trading results.

Order pt. VII.3.B.

Gramalegui shall not make any representation of financial benefits associated
with any commodity futures or options trading system or advisory service without
first disclosing, prominently and conspicuously, that futures trading involves high
risks with the potential for substantial losses.

Order pt. VII.3.C.

Gramalegui shall not represent, expressly or by implication: (1) the performance,
profits or results achieved by, or the results that can be achieved by, users,
including himself, of any commodity futures or options trading system or
advisory service; (2) the risks associated with trading using any commodity
futures or options trading system or advisory service; or (3) that the experience
represented by any user, testimonial, or endorsement of the commodity futures or
options trading system or advisory service represents the typical or ordinary
experience of members of the public who use the system or advisory service;
unless: (1) Defendant possesses and relies upon a reasonable basis substantiating
the representation at the time it is made; and (ii) for two (2) years after the last
date of the dissemination of any such representation, Defendant maintains all
advertisements and promotional materials containing such representation and all

5

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 6 of 27

materials that were relied upon or that otherwise substantiated such representation
at the time it was made, and makes such materials immediately available to the
Commission’s Division of Enforcement for inspection and copying upon request.

Order pt. VII.3.D.
B. Defendant’s Operation of ETS

17. Defendant has been operating ETS since at least 2006. Through ETS, Defendant
offers a trading system consisting of trading plans and trading software (the “trading system”)
and an advisory service that purportedly enable clients to trade e-minis profitably. Defendant
demonstrates how to use the trading system through seminars, training videos, one-on-one
training sessions, and access to a Live Trading Room. These ETS products and services are
offered to the public in a series of packages ranging in price from hundreds of dollars to several
thousands of dollars.

18. Defendant is the sole owner and operator of ETS. At certain times, Defendant
engaged or employed individuals to assist with ETS sales and operations. At least some of these
individuals were initially ETS clients.

19. | Defendant has never tested his trading system through actual trading for
profitability or accuracy.

1. Defendant’s Marketing of ETS

20. Defendant markets ETS products and services through an Internet website located
at http://www.eminitradingschool.com (the “Website”). Defendant also periodically sends
marketing e-mails to members of the public advertising ETS products and services and offering
promotional discounts. Defendant markets ETS products and services both to clients with no

prior trading experience and to professional traders.
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Documenti Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 7 of 27

21, Defendant is responsible for Website content. On the Website, clients and
prospective clients can read descriptions of ETS products and services, review client
testimonials, view available product and service packages and pricing, and access the Live
Trading Room.

2. ETS Products and Services

22. Defendant offers a variety of products and services on the Website that
purportedly teach prospective clients how to use Defendant’s “winning trading strategies” and
enable them to become “professional day traders.” The products and services include various
trading software programs, trading plans, seminars, and subscriptions to the “Live Trading
Room.”

23. The trading plans are manuals provided in Adobe PDF format. Defendant
describes the trading plans on his Website as “the best comprehensive trading plan that can help
you become a professional day trader.” The Website also states: “We truly do expect to be
profitable each and every day and when following the trading plan and using our Market Profile
Charts for Ninja Trader or Tradestation.” Finally, the Website says: “The trading plan is always
correct.” Yet with regard to whether he has ever tested his trading plans through personal
trading, Defendant admitted: “I mean I’m sure I have tried to. You can’t always do it. Just
because it’s there doesn’t mean you can do it.... Everything in life changes, you know, from
that. My brain shuts off a lot of times when I trade.”

24, — ETS products and services rely heavily on Market Profile, a trading tool that was
first developed in the 1980s and is the intellectual property of CME Group, Market Profile

manipulates market price and time data visually for the trader. .

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 8 of 27

3. Live Trading Room

25. Defendant operates the Live Trading Room to show clients how to apply the
trading system through the demonstration of live trading. The Live Trading Room is free on a
trial basis to new clients and offered on a paid basis as part of a package or through a monthly
subscription fee. On the Website, Defendant explains that in the Live Trading Room, “new
traders can watch how our traders use our proven trading strategies, and they can practice while
using a demo account.” He also states that the Live Trading Room features “real quality trades”
and provides the last training “you’ ll need to take towards becoming a professional day trader.”

26. Communication between Defendant and clients occurs in several ways in the Live
Trading Room: (1) There is a chat room component, in which Defendant and clients exchange
written messages. Clients cannot see other clients’ messages unless Defendant decides to share a
client’s message with the room. (2) There is an audio component, in which clients hear
Defendant talk through a microphone. This is Defendant’s chief method of communicating with
clients. Defendant generally answers clients’ typed questions and announces trades through his
microphone. (3) There is also a video component, in which clients see trading charts,
Defendant’s purported trading account on the Ninja Trader trading platform, or other visual aids
that are displayed by Defendant. (4) In addition, there is a private messaging function, in which
Defendant and clients can send messages to each other directly.

27. In the Live Trading Room, Defendant recommends trades to clients. At times, he
announces that he will take a trade at a certain entry point. Even though Defendant told clients

that he would recommend trades with enough lead time for clients to take the trade as well,
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 9 of 27

clients at times missed trades because Defendant did not leave enough time between announcing
and entering the trade.

28. Clients could also see certain trades that Defendant took because he displayed his
Ninja Trader account in the Live Trading Room. For example, when Defendant placed a limit
order, a flag would appear on the screen with a buy or sell sign. The buy or sell sign meant that
Defendant had committed to the order, and clients therefore knew that Defendant was entering a
trade. Consistent with these practices, on the Website Defendant states that in the Live Trading
Room “[y]Jou will see our NinjaTrader and Trade Station trading charts and [trading] execution
platform on a regular basis.”

29. Defendant advertises that he recommends trades in the Live Trading Room, For
example, Defendant stated in the Live Trading Room on September 5, 2014: “[I] am not going to |
trade call all day long or trade once [I] am a winner and [I] give monthly traders one or two
trades aday....” The same day, Defendant stated in the Live Trading Room: “[I] will give
traders one winner each day is my ambition then DONE.”

4. Defendant’s Trading Experience

30, Defendant is a self-taught trader. He first began reading books about trading
while serving time in federal prison. He has not taken any outside training in trading futures or
using Market Profile.

31. Defendant admitted that his “main reason” for starting ETS was “for myself, to
try to understand Market Profile.” He also admitted that there are “things that I don’t
understand about [Market Profile] at this point, that you know, would be, you know, not

necessarily complicated.” He admitted that he “tr[ies] to” use the trading system he designed in

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document 1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 10 of 27

his own trading, but that “[t]here’s many things I probably — I wouldn’t understand because it’s
an auction process.”

32. Despite holding himself out as a “professional day trader” to prospective clients,
Defendant’s trading while he has operated ETS has not been profitable. Defendant is not a
frequent trader, and he sustained trading losses during the period from March 2010 through
February 2015, even after accounting for transaction fees.

C. Defendant’s Misrepresentations while Operating ETS

33. While operating ETS, Defendant has made numerous misrepresentations
concerning the trading system’s performance record, its ability to predict market behavior, client
profits, and the Live Trading Room, among other things.

1. Misrepresentations About the Trading System’s Performance Record

34. Defendant has made several misrepresentations about the trading system’s

performance record. For example:

a. On February 8, 2011, Defendant sent an e-mail responding to a question from
a client that stated: “I generally trade till I am profitable and stop trading for
myself at that time.”

b. On August 9, 2011, Defendant sent a marketing e-mail to clients and

prospective clients stating in the subject line: “73 Winning Days in a row!”

C, As of October 7, 2014, the Website stated: “The software has be[en] up to
95% accurate for the past 4 months... .”

d. On December 3, 2014, Defendant sent a marketing e-mail to clients and
prospective clients stating in the subject line: “Yesterday Our MP Trading
crushed the market.”

35. These statements are misleading because they represent to clients and prospective

clients that Defendant actually traded and made real profits using his trading system. Yet

10
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 11 of 27

Defendant traded irregularly and sustained trading losses. Defendant therefore had no basis,
such as actual performance results, for making these claims.

2. Misrepresentations About the Trading System’s Ability to Predict Market Behavior

36. Defendant has made several misrepresentations about the trading system’s ability

to predict market behavior. For example:

a. As of October 7, 2014, the Website stated: “We can then actually predict the
first hour of the emini trading day .. . and know what should happen during
the whole day of trading.”

b. On January 30, 2014, Defendant sent a marketing e-mail to clients and
prospective clients stating: “Traders can Start off the New Year in our Live
Emini ES Trading Room and for FREE! Have fun watching us predict where
the Emini ES (or any market) will go and to the tick.”

37. These statements are misleading because they represent to clients and prospective
clients that Defendant had the ability to predict market movements. Yet Defendant sustained
trading losses. Defendant therefore had no basis, such as actual performance results, for
claiming that his trading system predicts what will happen in the futures markets.

3. Misrepresentations About Clients’ Ability to Profit Using the System

38. Defendant has made several misrepresentations about clients’ ability to profit

using the trading system. For example:

a. On August 9, 2011, Defendant sent a marketing e-mail to clients and
prospective clients stating: “You can win every day in the markets by
following our trading plan,”

b. In the same marketing e-mail, Defendant stated: “Most traders have made
enough on one trade to pay for the monthly subscription.”

C, On January 15, 2014, Defendant sent a marketing e-mail to clients and
prospective clients stating: “The traders who do use our Trading Plans had
many LONG winning trades and NO Losing Trades.”

11

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 12 of 27

d. As of October 7, 2014, the Website stated: “We make it that easy for the
trader to let the profits run.”

39. These statements are misleading because Defendant had no basis for these claims
at the time he made them. Defendant admitted that he has never collected information on the
results or profits achieved by clients using his trading system. In addition, Defendant’s own
inability to sustain profits shows that these claims are groundless.

4, Misrepresentations About the Live Trading Room

40. Defendant has made several misrepresentations relating to the Live Trading

Room. For example:

a. On September 5, 2014, Defendant stated in the Live Trading Room: “{T] still
am live and more accurate than any other trading room either way.”

b. On September 9, 2014, Defendant stated in the Live Trading Room: “Yes,
you are going to see Live Trades everyday starting at the opening bell.”

C. As of October 7, 2014, the Website stated: “[In the Live Trading Room], new
traders can watch how our traders use our proven trading strategies ....”

41. These statements are misleading because Defendant did not engage in actual
trading each day that the Live Trading Room was open. Defendant falsely represented to clients
in the Live Trading Room that he was trading when, in fact, he was not.

42, The misrepresentations in Paragraphs 34-41 are material because a reasonable
client would consider them important in deciding whether to purchase Defendant’s products and
services.

43, Defendant made the misrepresentations in Paragraphs 34-41 knowingly, willfully,
and intentionally by making the claims with knowledge of their falsity and/or with knowledge

that he lacked any basis for making the claims.

12
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 13 of 27

D. Failure to Make Required Disclosures

44. The Regulations require Defendant to make specific disclosures to clients and
prospective clients when he engages in certain conduct. The Order imposes additional disclosure
requirements. Both the Regulations and the Order specify the manner in which these disclosures
must be made.

45. While operating ETS, Defendant made statements on the Website and in
marketing e-mails that triggered his responsibility to make disclosures required by the
Regulations and the Order. However, Defendant failed to comply with those requirements. He
also attempted to conceal his noncompliance by modifying the Website before producing it to the
Commission, as alleged in Paragraphs 64-69, below.

46. On October 7, 2014, the Commission captured a forensically-sound copy of the
Website as it existed prior to Defendant’s modifications. In that version, there was a scroll box
at the bottom of each webpage containing lengthy disclosures. The scroll box provided a narrow
view of the language it contains; only eight lines of text were visible at any given time and a
visitor was required to scroll to view the rest of the disclosure text. In addition, the scroll box
was located after the “footer” on each webpage, which contained links to other pages of the
Website and copyright information for the Website. There was no indication elsewhere on the
Website that important disclosures were provided at the bottom of the page. Thus, a client or
prospective client would have had no reason to scroll past the footer of the Website to discover

the scroll box containing the disclosures.

13

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 14 of 27

1. Failure to Provide Required Disclosures Concerning Testimonials

47. Defendant has displayed client testimonials on the Website and in marketing e-
mails. 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(a)(3) requires that certain disclosure language be “prominently
disclose[d]” when a CTA displays testimonials.

48. As of October 7, 2014, the Website contained dozens of testimonials about the
profits and results that can be achieved using the trading system. Defendant included the
disclosure language required by 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(a)@) in the scroll box described in Paragraph
46, far removed from the main Website content.

49. In addition, Defendant sent a marketing e-mail on November 1, 2012 to clients
and prospective clients that contained a testimonial concerning a client’s trading results.
Defendant did not include the disclosure language required by 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(a)(3) in the e-
mail.

2. Failure to Provide Required Disclosures Concerning Hypothetical or Simulated Trading
Results

50. Defendant has advertised trading results that were based on hypothetical or
simulated trading on the Website and in marketing e-mails. 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b) requires that
specific disclosure language be “prominently disclosed and in immediate proximity” to
simulated or hypothetical trading results. Part VIU.3.B of the Order requires that Defendant
accompany any simulated or hypothetical trading results with the disclosure language in 17
C.F.R. § 4.41(b) and also requires Defendant to “clearly identify” the results that were based, in
whole or in part, on hypothetical trading.

51. As of October 7, 2014, the Website advertised certain results that were

purportedly achieved using the trading system and were based on hypothetical or simulated

14
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 15 of 27

trading. Defendant included a modified version of the disclosure language required by 17 C.F.R.
§ 4.41(b) in the scroll box described in Paragraph 46, far removed from the advertised results and
the main Website content. The disclosure language was not “prominently disclosed and in
immediate proximity” to the simulated or hypothetical trading results, as required by 17 C.F.R. §
4.41(b). In addition, Defendant did not “clearly identify” the trading results that were based, in.
whole or in part, on hypothetical trading, as required by the Order.

3. Failure to Provide Required Disclosure Concerning Risks of Futures Trading

52. Part VII.3.C of the Order prohibits Defendant from making “any representation of
financial benefits associated with any commodity futures or options trading system or advisory
service without first disclosing, prominently and conspicuously, that futures trading involves
high risks with the potential for substantial losses.” Defendant has made statements of financial
benefits from futures trading on the Website, in marketing e-mails, and in the Live Trading
Room without first disclosing the required language.

53. For example, in the version of the Website captured by the Commission on
October 7, 2014, the Website did not state anywhere that “futures trading involves high risks
with the potential for substantial losses,” as required by Part VII.3.C of the Order. In addition,
there was no statement concerning the risks of futures trading before representations of financial
benefits were displayed on the Website. The only statement concerning the risks of futures
trading was buried in the scroll box described in Paragraph 46, after representations of financial

benefits and removed from the main Website content.

15

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Documenti1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 16 of 27

E. Failure to Possess a Reasonable Basis Substantiating Claims and to Comply with the
Retention Requirement

54. Part VIL.3.D of the Order requires Defendant (1) to possess a reasonable basis
substantiating statements concerning the “performance, profits, or results” that can be achieved
by users of his trading system, including himself, at the time the statement is made; (2) to retain
and produce to the Commission upon request copies of materials substantiating such statements;
and (3) to retain and produce to the Commission upon request copies of the marketing materials
that contain such statements.

55. Defendant never had a reasonable basis substantiating his statements concerning
the performance, profits, or results that can be achieved using his trading system, including the
statements alleged in Paragraphs 34 to 39. Defendant admitted that he does not “keep track” of
clients’ trading performance, and never has. He also stated that he does not “keep track” of his
own trading performance.

56. In addition, the Commission asked Defendant to produce copies of documents
substantiating certain statements concerning performance, profits, and results that he made on the
Website. In response, Defendant produced a host of irrelevant documents, none of which
substantiated the statements at issue.

57. The Commission also asked Defendant to produce copies of all ETS marketing
materials. In response, Defendant produced only a handful of documents, including a recently
modified version of the Website and a single marketing e-mail. The Commission independently
obtained copies of marketing e-mails that Defendant sent to clients and prospective clients less

than two years ago and contained representations about the performance, profits, and results that

16
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 17 of 27

can be achieved using his trading system. Under Order Part VII.3.D, Defendant was required to,
but did not, retain those marketing materials and produce them to the Commission upon request.
F. Defendant’s False or Misleading Statements to the Commission

1. False or Misleading Statements About the Live Trading Room

58. On April 21, 2015, Defendant provided sworn testimony before officers of the
Commission concerning the subject matter of this Complaint.

59. During his testimony, Defendant repeatedly made false statements of material fact
concerning, among other things, the Live Trading Room. Specifically, Defendant denied that he
ever recommended or “called” trades to customers in the Live Trading Room. He also denied
that he showed his own trading to customers. Rather, Defendant testified that the only thing he
did in the Live Trading Room was “teach ].”

60. _Inreality, Defendant “called” or recommended trades to clients in the Live
Trading Room. Clients then attempted to replicate Defendant’s trading by placing similar orders
in their own trading accounts, which often resulted in trading losses. In addition, on at least
some occasions, Defendant displayed his Ninja Trader trading account in the Live Trading
Room, which enabled clients to see orders that Defendant placed in real time.

61. Defendant’s own prior statements in marketing materials and in the Live Trading
Room also corroborate that he “called” or recommended trades in the Live Trading Room. For

example:

a. As of October 7, 2014, the Website stated: “[In the Live Trading Room], new
traders can watch how our traders use our proven trading strategies ....”

b. As of October 7, 2014, the Website displayed a client testimonial that stated:
“You can actually see what they are doing live with their charts as they enter
trades.”

17

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 18 of 27

c. As of October 7, 2014, the Website displayed a client testimonial that stated:
“He keeps updating the market data... and at the same time suggesting
trading strategy i.e. buy/sell entry location, stop loss and profit target etc.”

d. On September 5, 2014, Defendant stated in the Live Trading Room: “boom
there you go, you are in the one winner i will point out today... .”

€. On September 9, 2014, Defendant stated in the Live Trading Room: “Yes, you
are going to see Live Trades everyday starting at the opening bell... .”

62. Accordingly, Defendant’s testimony that he did not “call,” recommend, or show
trades in the Live Trading Room was knowingly false or misleading.

2. False or Misleading Statements About Modifications to the Website

 

63. Defendant also made false or misleading statements of material fact to the
Commission through his conduct in attempting to conceal material modifications he made to the
Website before producing it to the Commission. Specifically, Defendant modified the Website
disclosures by (1) adding language that he is required to provide under the Order; (2) revising
other portions of the disclosure language; and (3) removing the disclosure language from the
scroll box in which it had previously been contained and placing it in the main Website text.

64. Defendant first became aware that the Commission was investigating him on
October 7, 2014, when Commission staff called Defendant to ask questions about ETS.

65. Defendant modified the Website as alleged in Paragraph 63 at some point
between October 7, 2014 (which is also the date that the Commission captured a forensically-
sound copy of the Website) and December 2, 2014 (the date on which Defendant produced his
modified version).

66. Defendant did not notify the Commission that he had modified the Website at the

time he produced his version of the Website.

18
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 19 of 27

67. Inasubsequent conversation between Commission staff and Defendant’s counsel,
Defendant’s counsel noted that Defendant had made one modification to the Website before
producing it. However, Defendant’s counsel did not notify the Commission of the material
modifications to the Website disclosures during that conversation or at any time thereafter.

68. Commission officers took Defendant’s sworn testimony on April 21, 2015 and
specifically asked him about changes to the Website. When he was asked how frequently the
Website was updated or changed, Defendant testified: “[L]ately, not at all, you know, and prior
to that like I produced economic news reports like in a blog or something.” Defendant’s attorney
then clarified that he had advised Defendant “to have someone take links [to testimonials] off so
they were no longer accessible” but did not mention any other modifications. Defendant was
also specifically asked what “other changes” were made to the Website, and Defendant failed to
disclose that he had recently modified the form and content of the Website disclosures...

69, Commission officers also asked Defendant about the content of the Website
disclosures during testimony. Defendant testified that he was responsible for putting the
disclosures on the Website and that he had submitted the disclosure content to his webmaster for
publication “years and years ago.” This testimony was misleading, because the disclosure

content on the Website had been recently modified.

19

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 20 of 27

V. violations OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT
COUNT I
violations OF 7 U.S.C. § 60(1): FRAUD BY A COMMODITY TRADING ADVISOR

70. Paragraphs 1-69 are realleged and incorporated herein by reference.

71. 7U<S.C. § 1a(6) defines a CTA as any person who, for compensation or profit,
engages in the business of advising others, either directly or through publications, writings, or
electronic media, as to the value of or the advisability of trading in any contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery made or to be made on or subject to the rules of a contract market.
Through the sale of the products and services that form the trading system and advisory service,
Defendant acts as a CTA.

72. 7US.C. § 60(1) makes it unlawful for a CTA, by use of the mails or any means
or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly (A) to employ any device,
scheme, or artifice to defraud any client or customer or prospective client or customer; or (B) to
engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit
upon any client or prospective client.

73. Through the conduct alleged in Paragraphs 33-41, Defendant, while acting as a
CTA, by using the mails or other means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce (i) employed
devices, schemes, or artifices to defraud clients or prospective clients, and (ii) engaged in
transactions, practices or courses of business which operated as a fraud or deceit upon clients or

prospective clients, in violations of 7 U.S.C. § 60(1).

20
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 21 of 27

74. Each fraudulent misrepresentation or omission made by Defendant, including
those specifically alleged herein, constitutes a separate and distinct violations of 7 U.S.C. § 60(1).
COUNT II

violations OF 17 C.F.R. § 4.41: FAILURE TO PROVIDE REQUIRED
DISCLOSURES

75. Paragraphs 1-69 are realleged and incorporated herein by reference,

76.  7U.S.C. § 1a(6) defines a CTA as any person who, for compensation or profit,
engages in the business of advising others, either directly or through publications, writings, or
electronic media, as to the value of or the advisability of trading in any contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery made or to be made on or subject to the rules of a contract market,
Through the sale of the products and services that form the trading system and advisory service,
Defendant acts as a CTA.

77. 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(a)(G) makes it unlawful for any CTA to refer to any testimonial,
unless the advertisement or sales literature providing the testimonial prominently discloses: (i)
that the testimonial may not be representative of the experience of other clients; (ii) that the
testimonial is no guarantee of future performance or success; and (iii) if, more than a nominal
sum is paid, the fact that it is a paid testimonial.

78. Through the conduct alleged in Paragraphs 44-49, Defendant, while acting as a
CTA, referred to testimonials on the Website and in marketing e-mails without prominently
disclosing the required statement in violations of 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(a)@3).

79, 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b) makes it unlawful for any person to present the performance
of any simulated or hypothetical commodity interest account, transaction in a commodity interest

or series of transactions in a commodity interest of a commodity pool operator, CTA, or any

21

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Documenti Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 22 of 27

principal thereof, unless such performance is accompanied by a required statement. If
presentation of such simulated or hypothetical performance is other than oral, the prescribed
statement must be prominently disclosed and in immediate proximity to the simulated or
hypothetical performance being presented.

80. Through the conduct alleged in Paragraphs 44-46 and 50-51, Defendant, while
acting as a CTA, presented the performance of simulated and hypothetical commodity interest
accounts without prominently disclosing the required statement in immediate proximity to the
performance being presented, in violations of 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b).

81. Each failure to prominently disclose the required statements, including those
specifically alleged herein, constitutes a separate and distinct violations of 17 C.F.R. § 4.41.

COUNT Il
violations OF THE COMMISSION’S JULY 12, 2001 ORDER

82. Paragraphs 1-69 are realleged and incorporated herein by reference.

83. On July 12, 2001, the Commission issued an Order pursuant to 7 U.S.C. §§ 9,
13b, and 15 (2000).

84. Part VII.1 of the Order directs Defendant to cease and desist from violating 7
U.S.C. § 60(1)(B) and 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b). Through the conduct alleged in Paragraphs 33-43
and 50-51, Defendant has violated Part VII.1 of the Order.

85. Part VII.3.A of the Order prohibits Defendant from making misrepresentations
about the performance, profits, or results that can be achieved using his trading system or
advisory service. Through the conduct alleged in Paragraphs 33-43, Defendant has violated Part

VII.3.A of the Order.

22
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Documenti Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 23 of 27

86. Part VII.3.B of the Order prohibits Defendant from presenting hypothetical or
simulated trading results unless Defendant accompanies those results with the disclosure
language in 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(b) and clearly identifies the results that are based on hypothetical
trading. Through the conduct alleged in Paragraphs 50-51, Defendant has violated Part VII.3.B
of the Order.

87. Part VII.3.C of the Order requires Defendant to provide a warning concerning the
risks of futures trading before he makes any representation of the financial benefits associated
with a trading system or advisory service. Through the conduct alleged in Paragraphs 52-53,
Defendant has violated Part VII.3.C of the Order.

88. Part VIL.3.D of the Order requires that Defendant possess a reasonable basis for
any representation that he makes about the performance, profits, or results that can be achieved
using his trading system or advisory service. Defendant must retain marketing materials
containing such representations and materials substantiating such representations for two years
after the last date of dissemination of the representation. Through the conduct alleged in
Paragraphs 54-57, Defendant has violated Part VII.3.D of the Order.

89. Each act by Defendant in violations of the Order, including those specifically
alleged herein, constitutes a separate and distinct violations of the Order.

COUNT IV
violations OF 7 U.S.C. § 9(2): FALSE STATEMENTS TO THE COMMISSION =
90, Paragraphs 1-69 are realleged and incorporated herein by reference.
91. 7U.S.C. § 9(2) makes it “unlawful for any person to make any false or misleading

statement of a material fact to the Commission, including in any registration application or any

23

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 24 of 27

report filed with the Commission under this Act, or any other information relating to a swap, or a
contract of sale of a commodity, in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to
the rules of any registered entity, or to omit to state in any such statement any material fact that is
necessary to make any statement of a material fact made not misleading in any material respect,
if the person knew, or reasonably should have known, the statement to be false or misleading.”

92. On April 21, 2015, Defendant testified before Commission officers that he does
not recommend, identify, or show trades to clients in the Live Trading Room. Defendant’s
testimony constituted false or misleading statements of material fact to the Commission.

93. On December 2, 2014, Defendant produced documents to the Commission that
purportedly constituted a copy of the Website. Defendant produced the copy without informing
the Commission that he modified the form and content of the Website disclosures after the
Commission requested the copy. On April 21, 2015, Defendant testified before Commission
officers concerning modifications to the Website and failed to inform the Commission about the
recent modifications. Defendant’s failure to disclose the modifications to the form and content
of Website disclosures on December 2, 2014 and on April 21, 2015 constituted false or
misleading statements of material fact to the Commission.

94. Defendant knew or reasonably should have known that the statements alleged in
Paragraphs 92 and 93 were false or misleading.

95. Each false or misleading statement of a material fact, including but not limited to

those specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a separate violations of 7 U.S.C. § 9(2).

24
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 25 of 27

VI. PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court, as authorized by 7
U.S.C. § 13a-1, and pursuant to its own equitable powers, enter: |

a) An order finding that Defendant violated 7 U.S.C. §§ 60(1) and 9(2); 17 C.F.R.
§ 4.41(a)(3) and (b); and the Commission’s July 12, 2001 Order;

b) An order of permanent injunction prohibiting Defendant, and any other person or
entity associated with him, from engaging in conduct violative of 7 U.S.C. §§ 60(1) and 9(2); 17
C.F.R. § 4.41(a)(@) and (b); and the Commission’s July 12, 2001 Order;

) An order of permanent injunction prohibiting Defendant and any on his agents,
servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and persons in active concert or participation, including
any successor thereof, from, directly or indirectly:

1) trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in 7 U.S.C. § 1a(29));

2) entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that
term is defined in 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (yy) (2015)) for his own personal or
proprietary account or for any account in which he has a direct or indirect

interest;
3) having any commodity interests traded on his behalf;
4) controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or

entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account
involving commodity interests;

5) soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the
purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

6) applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission, except
as provided for in 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(a)Q);

25

 
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 26 of 27

7) acting as a principal (as that term is defined in 17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a) (2015)),
agent or other officer or employee of any person registered, exempted
from registration or required to be registered with the Commission, except
as provided for in 17 C.F.R. § 4.41(a)(9); and

8) engaging in any business activities relating to commodity interests;

d) An order directing Defendant, as well as any successors thereof, to disgorge all
benefits received, directly or indirectly, from acts or practices that constitute violations of the
Act, Regulations, or Order, as described herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from
the date of such violations;

e) An order requiring Defendant, as well as any successors thereof, to make full
restitution to every person or entity whose funds Defendant received, or caused against person or
entity to receive, from the acts or practices that constitute violations of the Act, Regulations, or
Order, as described herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from the date of such
violations;

f) An order directing Defendant, as well as any successors thereof, to pay a civil
monetary penalty, plus post-judgment interest, in the amount of the greater of: (1) $140,000 for
each violations of the Act, Regulations, and Order; or (2) triple Defendant’s monetary gain from
each violations of the Act, Regulations, and Order;

g) An order requiring Defendant to pay costs and fees, as permitted by 28 U.S.C.

§§ 1920 and 2412(a)(2) (2012); and
h) An order providing such other and further equitable or remedial ancillary relief as

the Court may deem appropriate.

26
Case 1:15-cv-02313-REB Document1 Filed 10/19/15 USDC Colorado Page 27 of 27

Dated: October 19, 2015

Respectfully submitted,

 

 

Laura Brookover
Trial Attorney

Daniel C, Jordan

Chief Trial Attorney

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
1155 21st St, NW

Washington, DC 20581

Telephone; (202) 418-5459

Facsimile: (202) 418-5987

E-mail: lbrookover@cftc.gov; djordan@cftc.gov

Attorneys for U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission

27

 

 
