Release Number 7268-15

 

October 21, 2015

CFTC Charges Colorado Resident Gregory L. Gramalegui, Doing Business as Emini Trading
School, with Fraud and Other Violations Involving a Futures Trading System and Advisory
Service

Gramalegui also Charged with Violating a CFTC Administrative Order
Entered in 2001, Settling Prior Fraud Charges Brought against Him

Washington, DC—The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced the filing of a civil
enforcement action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado, charging Defendant Gregory L. Gramalegui of
Vail, Colorado, with fraud, making false statements to the CFTC, failure to make required advertising disclosures, and
violation of an administrative Order (CFTC Order) entered by the CFTC on July 12, 2001 (see CFTC Order and Press
Release 4544-01, July 12, 2001). Gramalegui has never been registered with the CFTC.

In its enforcement action, the CFTC alleges that the Defendant made fraudulent representations in marketing materials
for his futures trading system and advisory service. The Defendant offered his futures trading system and advisory
service through his Emini Trading School (ETS). The CFTC Complaint also alleges that the Defendant’s fraudulent
representations were made on the ETS website, in marketing e-mails, and in the “Live Trading Room” run by ETS.

Specifically, the Complaint charges that the Defendant made material, false representations in his solicitations of clients
and prospective clients, including that 1) “You can win every day in the markets by following our trading plan”, 2) “The
traders who do use our Trading Plans had many LONG winning trades and NO Losing Trades”; and 3) “We make it that
easy for the trader to let the profits run.” In reality, as alleged, the Defendant had no basis for making these
representations, and his clients lost money using his futures trading system and advisory service.

In addition, the CFTC alleges that the Defendant made false or misleading statements to the CFTC during the course of
its investigation into his conduct. The Defendant also failed to provide advertising disclosures to clients and prospective
clients in the manner required under CFTC Regulations, and he violated the CFTC Order entered in 2001, settling prior
fraud charges brought against him.

In its continuing litigation, the CFTC seeks restitution to defrauded clients, disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, a civil
monetary penalty, permanent registration and trading bans, and a permanent injunction against futures violations of
federal commodities laws, as charged.

The CFTC thanks the Vail, Colorado Police Department for their assistance in this matter.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Laura Brookover, Daniel C. Jordan, Michelle
Bougas, and Rick Glaser, as well as Jeremy Christianson from the CFTC’s Office of Data and Technology.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: October 23, 2015
