F. #2016R00467

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
- against -
LOW TAEK JHO,
also known as “Jho Low,” and
NG CHONG HWA,
also known as “Roger Ng,”

Defendants.

THE GRAND JURY CHARGES:

FILE
IRIZARRY CHsktsteices..

GOLD, M.J. * OCT -3 208 +

BROOKLYN OFFICE
INDICTMENT

   

     

 

     

; » ne
cr Wa Ga ko @ os
°

(T. 18, U.S.C., §§ 371, 981fa)(PI(
982(a)(1), 982(b), 1956(h) and 3551
et seq.; T. 21, U.S.C., § 853(p); T. 28,
US.C., § 2461(c))

 

At all times relevant to this Indictment, unless otherwise indicated:

I. The Defendants

1. LOW TAEK JHO, also known as “Jho Low,” (““LOW” or “JHO

LOW”) was a Malaysian national who advised on the creation of Terengganu Investment

Authority (“TIA”), the predecessor entity to 1 Malaysia Development Berhad (“1 MDB”),

Malaysia’s state-owned and state-controlled investment development company. LOW

worked as an intermediary in relation to 1 MDB and other foreign government officials on

numerous financial transactions and projects involving U.S. Financial Institution #1) and

others, though he did not hold a formal position at IMDB nor was he ever employed by the

Governments of Malaysia or Abu Dhabi.

 

I The identity of U.S. Financial Institution #1 and all other anonymized entities and
individuals discussed herein are known to the Grand Jury.
2. NG CHONG HWA, also known as “Roger Ng,” (“NG” or “ROGER
NG”) was a Malaysian national who was employed as a Managing Director by various
subsidiaries, and acted as an agent and employee, of U.S. Financial Institution #1. NG
worked with Co-Conspirator #1 at U.S. Financial Institution #1 from approximately 2005 to
May 2014. NG was thus an “employee” and “agent” of an “issuer” within the meaning of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-
l(a).
Il. Relevant Entities and Individuals

A. U.S. Financial Institution #1

3. U.S. Financial Institution #1 was a global investment banking, securities
and investment management firm incorporated in Delaware and headquartered in New York,
New York. It conducted its activities primarily through various subsidiaries and affiliates
(collectively “U.S. Financial Institution #1”), including those that employed the defendant
ROGER NG and some of his co-conspirators, including Co-Conspirator #1. U.S. Financial
Institution #1 had a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 (Title 15, United States Code, Section 78) (the “Exchange Act”) and
was required to file reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under Section
15(d) of the Exchange Act (Title 15, United States Code, Section 780(d)). As such, U.S.
Financial Institution #1 was an “issuer” within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United

States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).
B. 1MDB and Other Relevant Entities

4. IMDB was a strategic investment and development company wholly
owned and controlled by the Government of Malaysia through its Ministry of Finance
(“MOF”). It was formed in or around 2009, when the Malaysian government took federal
control of TIA, which had previously been the sovereign wealth fund of the state of
Terengganu in Malaysia. 1MDB was created to pursue investment and development
projects for the economic benefit of Malaysia and its people, primarily relying on debt to
fund these investments. 1 MDB’s development projects were focused in the areas of energy,
real estate, tourism and agribusiness. 1MDB was overseen by senior Malaysian government
officials, was controlled by the Government of Malaysia and performed a government
function on behalf of Malaysia. Malaysian Official #1, further described below, was a high-
ranking official in the Malaysian government and the MOF with high-level authority to,
among other things, approve and influence 1MDB business decisions. IMDB was thus an
“instrumentality” of a foreign government within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1)(A) and 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

5. Foreign Agency A was an investment fund wholly owned by the
Government of Abu Dhabi. It was established by the Government of Abu Dhabi pursuant to
an Emiri Decree in or around 1984, with a mandate to advance Abu Dhabi’s natural
petroleum wealth for the development of the emirate. Foreign Agency A was overseen by
senior Abu Dhabi government officials, was controlled by the Government of Abu Dhabi,
which appointed all the members of Foreign Agency A’s board of directors, and performed a

government function on behalf of Abu Dhabi. Foreign Agency A was thus an
4

“instrumentality” of a foreign government within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1)(A) and 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

6. Foreign Investment Firm A, a subsidiary of Foreign Agency A, was a .
private joint stock company incorporated under the laws of Abu Dhabi.

C. Other Relevant Individuals

7. Between in or around 1998 and in or around February 2016, Co- —
Conspirator #1 was employed by various subsidiaries, and acted as an agent and employee,
of U.S. Financial Institution #1. Prior to his separation from U.S. Financial Institution #1 in
or around February 2016, Co-Conspirator #1 was the Southeast Asia Chairman and a
Participating Managing Director of U.S. Financial Institution #1. Co-Conspirator #1 was an
“employee” and “agent” of an “issuer” within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).

8. Co-Conspirator #2 was a U.S. citizen who was a high-ranking official
of Foreign Investment Firm A from at least in or around 2012 until in or around 2014.

9. Co-Conspirator #3 was a Malaysian national who was a close relative
of Malaysian Official #1 and owned U.S. Motion Picture Company #1, a U.S. legal entity in

the business of film production.

D. Foreign Government Officials
10. IMDB Official #1 was a high-ranking official at 1MDB from at least in

or around 2012 until in or around 2014. 1MDB Official #1 was thus a “foreign official”
within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1)(A) and
78dd-3(f)(2)(A). IMDB Official #1 served as one of the principal points of contact between

1MDB and U.S. Financial Institution #1 in connection with 1 MDB business.
11. 1MDB Official #2 was a high-ranking official of IMDB from at least in
or around 2012 until in or around 2014. 1MDB Official #2 was thus a “foreign official”
within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1)(A) and
78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

12. | IMDB Official #3 was a high-ranking official at IMDB from at least in
or around 2012 until in or around 2014. 1MDB Official #3 was thus a “foreign official”
within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1)(A) and
78dd-3(f)(2)(A). 1MDB Official #3 served as one of the principal points of contact between
1MDB and U.S. Financial Institution #1 in connection with 1MDB business.

13. Malaysian Official #1 was a Malaysian national and high-ranking
official in the Malaysian government and the MOF from in or around at least 2009 until in or
around 2018, with high-level authority to approve IMDB business decisions. Malaysian
Official #1 was thus a “foreign official” within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1)(A) and 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

14. Abu Dhabi Official #1 was a high-ranking official of Foreign Agency
A between at least in or around 2012 until in or around 2014, and a high-ranking official of
Foreign Investment Firm A. Abu Dhabi Official #1 was thus a “foreign official” within the

meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(f)(1)(A) and 78dd-

3(f)(2)(A).
Il. The Criminal Scheme
A. Overview
15. | 1MDB was created to pursue investment and development projects for

the economic benefit of Malaysia and its people. However, between approximately 2009
and 2014, billions of dollars were misappropriated and fraudulently diverted from 1 MDB
through various means, in part for the purpose of paying bribes to foreign officials. The
defendants JHO LOW, ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others conspired to launder the
proceeds of that criminal conduct in and through the U.S. financial system. These laundered
funds were used, in among other ways, to pay bribes to obtain and retain business for U.S.
Financial Institution #1, and for the personal benefit of the co-conspirators and their relatives
and associates, including, among other things, for the purchase of luxury residential real
estate in the United States and artwork from an auction house in New York, New York, and
the funding of major Hollywood films.

16. The defendants JHO LOW and ROGER NG, while NG was acting
within the scope of his employment as an agent of U.S. Financial Institution #1, with the
intent, at least in part, to benefit U.S. Financial Institution #1, together with others, conspired
to obtain and retain business from 1 MDB for U.S. Financial Institution #1 through the
promise and payment of bribes to government officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi. LOW
and NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others also conspired to launder funds embezzled from
1MDB, some of which were used to pay bribes to government officials in Malaysia and Abu
Dhabi, through financial systems in the United States and elsewhere. As part of the scheme,
LOW, NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others used LOW’s close personal relationships with
government officials in Abu Dhabi and Malaysia, including LOW’s relationship with
Malaysian Official #1, to obtain and retain 1MDB business for U.S. Financial Institution #1
through the promise and payment of bribes to these government officials.

17. Inthe course of the scheme, the defendants JHO LOW and ROGER

NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others obtained and retained 1MDB business for U.S. Financial
Institution #1, including three bond offerings that raised a total of approximately $6.5 billion
for IMDB in 2012 and 2013. These three bond offerings and related transactions ultimately
earned U.S. Financial Institution #1 approximately $600 million in fees and revenue and
resulted in NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others receiving large bonuses from U.S. Financial
Institution #1 and enhancing their professional reputations at U.S. Financial Institution #1.

18. Although the stated purpose of the approximately $6.5 billion raised by
the three bond transactions was to support 1 MDB projects for the benefit of the Malaysian
people, more than $2.7 billion was instead misappropriated by the defendants JHO LOW,
ROGER NG and others and distributed, in part, as bribes and kickbacks to government
officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi, including 1 MDB Official #1, IMDB Official #2,
1MDB Official #3, Malaysian Official #1 and Abu Dhabi Official #1 and their families,
including Co-Conspirator #3, as well as to other co-conspirators, including NG, LOW, Co-
Conspirator #1 and their families.

19. In order to get the deals, the defendant ROGER NG also conspired with
other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1, including Co-Conspirator #1, to
knowingly and willfully circumvent the internal accounting controls of U.S. Financial
Institution #1 in connection with the three 1 MDB bond transactions and other 1MDB
business. U.S. Financial Institution #1’s internal accounting controls were overseen and
enforced by its compliance function (the “Compliance Group”) and part of its legal
department, referred to internally as the “Business Intelligence Group” (the “Intelligence
Group”). These groups worked in conjunction with, and as part of, various committees in
reviewing transactions, including the three 1 MDB bond deals, for approval. However, the

business culture at U.S. Financial Institution #1, particularly in Southeast Asia, was highly
os a ots APSE RRS - “ gets Cooke a os * Yow RS cet
s eae ar oe os ay ee TN re ee ens at : toe rT Sys s ny x ee ES and Oy OR yo EPR 5 “
3 wy hay ON Shr opee Fae ke TS A a BS ‘ oy eh pews et 3 Sesto TRS ESE RS es Se ey hw eT pot 2 Rewer eA dee ALS
Se choi Beer lb LPs bee PY EPA teh iibbihe dds PUESE TAS SSE OeS Sk é IS hes ait SSA) MATS HS soar,

focused on consummating deals, at times prioritizing this goal ahead of the proper operation
of its compliance functions.

20. The defendant ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and other employees
and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1 knew that the defendant JHO LOW played a
_ central role in the bond transactions, including by acting as an intermediary between U.S.
Financial Institution #1, 1 MDB and other Malaysian and Abu Dhabi government officials.
NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1 also
knew that bribes had been promised to these officials to secure 1 MDB business for U.S.
Financial Institution #1. NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and other employees and agents of U.S.
Financial Institution #1 conspired to conceal that and other information from U.S. Financial
Institution #1’s Compliance Group and Intelligence Group to prevent those groups from
attempting to stop U.S. Financial Institution #1 from participating in the lucrative
transactions. Based on, among other things, their experience at U.S. Financial Institution #1
and in the region, the willingness of co-conspirators and colleagues to assist them, the high
fees that the 1 MDB deals would generate for U.S. Financial Institution #1 if the deals were
successful, and a system of internal accounting controls at U.S. Financial Institution #1 that
could be easily circumvented, NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others believed that they would
have, and they in fact did have, repeated success in concealing LOW’s involvement from,
and pushing these deals through, U-S. Financial Institution #1’s control functions to obtain

very lucrative business for U.S. Financial Institution #1, themselves and others.
B. The Defendant ROGER NG and Co-Conspirator #1 Began to Conspire to

Circumvent U.S. Financial Institution #1’s Internal Accounting Controls and
Win Business for U.S. Financial Institution #1

21. Beginning in or around 2009, the defendant ROGER NG began to
conspire with Co-Conspirator #1 and others to circumvent U.S. Financial Institution #1’s
internal accounting controls and win business for U.S. Financial Institution #1. At the time,
NG and Co-Conspirator #1 were both agents acting within the scope of their employment on
behalf of U.S. Financial Institution #1, with the intent, at least in part, to benefit U.S.
Financial Institution #1, and they collaborated on the creation of, and potential fundraising
for, TIA, while knowing that the defendant JHO LOW was an adviser for TIA. While
working on this deal, NG and Co-Conspirator #1 selectively disclosed to other employees of
U.S. Financial Institution #1 that they were working with LOW as an intermediary to secure
the deal, because they knew that disclosure more widely could have triggered steps to be
taken by certain personnel within the Compliance Group and the Intelligence Group to
investigate the business relationship with LOW and possibly jeopardize the deal.

22. During the course of the TIA transaction and afterwards, the defendants
JHO LOW and ROGER NG conspired with Co-Conspirator #1 and others to develop
business for U.S. Financial Institution #1, including with TIA’s successor entity, IMDB.
Notwithstanding LOW’s public denials about any involvement with 1 MDB during this time,
NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1
knew that LOW remained close to various 1MDB officials and government officials in Abu
Dhabi and Malaysia, including Malaysian Official #1, and worked with him for that reason.
During the course of his work with NG and Co-Conspirator #1, LOW also specifically

requested that NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others conceal his involvement in 1MDB and U.S.
Financial Institution #1’s business, and NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others continued to
conspire to conceal LOW’s involvement in their efforts to obtain and retain 1 MDB business
for U.S. Financial Institution #1 from the Compliance Group and the Intelligence Group.

23. | Between in or around September 2009 and in or around March 2011,
the defendant ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others supported at least three attempts to
make the defendant JHO LOW a formal client of U.S. Financial Institution #1. NG and Co-
Conspirator #1 supported these efforts because, in part, they believed that LOW would work
to deliver lucrative business deals, including from 1MDB, for the ultimate benefit of U.S.
Financial Institution #1, NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others. Ultimately, these attempts were
unsuccessful because certain personnel at U.S. Financial Institution #1 within the
Compliance Group and the Intelligence Group refused to approve the business relationship
between LOW and U.S. Financial Institution #1 based, in part, on concerns that they had
about the source of LOW’s wealth. Personnel within the Compliance Group and the
Intelligence Group communicated the rejection of LOW’s application to U.S. Financial
Institution #1 to NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others. Notwithstanding their knowledge about
the concerns that had been raised by the Compliance Group and the Intelligence Group about
LOW not being a suitable client for U.S. Financial Institution #1, NG and other employees
and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1, including Co-Conspirator #1, continued to
conspire with LOW based upon their belief that LOW would help ensure that government
officials within Malaysia, including at 1MDB, and within Abu Dhabi would deliver lucrative

business deals to U.S. Financial Institution #1.
1]

C. The Defendants JHO LOW and ROGER NG, Together with Others, Won
Business for U.S. Financial Institution #1 Through the Payment of Bribes and

Kickbacks

24. Throughout approximately 2012 and 2014, the defendants JHO LOW
and ROGER NG conspired with Co-Conspirator #1 and others with the intent, at least in part,
to obtain and retain business from 1 MDB for the benefit of U.S. Financial Institution #1
through the promise and payment of bribes to government officials in Malaysia and Abu
Dhabi using, in part, funds misappropriated and embezzled from the 1 MDB bond
transactions. During this time, and through the course of the scheme, LOW, NG, Co-
Conspirator #1 and others laundered hundreds of millions of dollars in funds misappropriated
and embezzled from 1 MDB and used some of those funds to pay millions of dollars in bribes
to government officials to obtain 1 MDB business for U.S. Financial Institution #1, in
particular, three bond offering transactions underwritten by U.S. Financial Institution #1 for
1 MDB referred to as “Project Magnolia,” “Project Maximus” and “Project Catalyze.”

PROJECT MAGNOLIA

25. Onor about January 23, 2012, the defendant JHO LOW sent an email
to the defendant ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and a high-ranking 1 MDB official to
introduce NG and Co-Conspirator #1 to the high-ranking 1 MDB official for purposes of
discussing the purchase of an asset by IMDB. In the email, LOW stated, “[p]lease exclude
me from the email list going forward.”

26.  Inor around early 2012, the defendants JHO LOW and ROGER NG
met in Malaysia with Co-Conspirator #1, 1 MDB Official #1, IMDB Official #3 and others.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss 1MDB’s proposed purchase of a Malaysian energy

company (“Malaysian Energy Company A”), and U.S. Financial Institution #1’s ability to
12

assist in obtaining financing for the purchase, among other things. During that meeting, NG,
Co-Conspirator #1 and others discussed with LOW, among other things, the type of guarantee
that IMDB needed to obtain to make the bond issuance acceptable to U.S. Financial
Institution #1 and ultimately agreed on the suitability of a guarantee from Foreign Agency A.
NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others understood that LOW was acting as an intermediary
between 1MDB, Malaysian Official #1 and other government officials from Abu Dhabi.

27.  Inor around late February 2012, the defendants JHO LOW and ROGER
NG, Co-Conspirator #1, 1 MDB Official #3 and others met in London to discuss the proposed
financing. During this meeting, LOW explained that to obtain the necessary support for the
financing and the guarantee from Foreign Agency A discussed at the prior meeting with NG,
Co-Conspirator #1 and others they would have to pay bribes to government officials in
Malaysia and Abu Dhabi, including to Malaysian Official #1 and a high-ranking Abu Dhabi
government official, to gain their approval for portions of the transaction. After the meeting,
it was understood that U.S. Financial Institution #1 would be engaged by 1MDB to act as an
adviser and arrange the purchase and financing of Malaysian Energy Company A.

28. Following the February 2012 meeting, the defendant ROGER NG told
another employee of U.S. Financial Institution #1 about the plan to pay bribes to government
officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi. NG understood and agreed with Co-Conspirator #1
and other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1 not to disclose this
information to personnel within the Compliance Group, the Intelligence Group or the
committees within U.S. Financial Institution #1 that would review this proposed bond

issuance and other 1MDB transactions.
y RS aiee me, ee Rb UE AIRS EE
AAR ES Prev ronearst 7 sorted Tea Pt
RTA PoP RE CS aes seess re og Berether ys fa sks aA Ey
res wat tet SAE SSL EE sOOeTNS RL GA SN re

13

29. In or around March 2012, IMDB selected U.S. Financial
Institution #1 to be the sole bookrunner and arranger for the $1.75 billion bond deal,
guaranteed by Foreign Agency A, and designed, in part, to pay for the acquisition of
Malaysian Energy Company A. This transaction was referred to internally at U.S. Financial
Institution #1 as “Project Magnolia.”

30. Following U.S. Financial Institution #1’s formal engagement to work on
Project Magnolia, the defendant ROGER NG continued to conspire with Co-Conspirator #1
and others, including other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1, to work
with the defendant JHO LOW on the transaction.

31. Inor around early March 2012, the defendants JHO LOW and ROGER
NG, Co-Conspirator #1, various 1MDB officials and others traveled to Abu Dhabi for
meetings with officials of Foreign Agency A and Foreign Investment Firm A to discuss the
guarantee for Project Magnolia. Throughout that time, NG knew that LOW arranged the
meetings with the officials of Foreign Agency A and Foreign Investment Firm A, and that
some of these officials, among others, would be paid bribes by LOW, or at his direction, to
influence the approval of the guarantee.

32. During this same time, in an effort to win and retain the bond deal to
finance the purchase of Malaysian Energy Company A, the defendant JHO LOW also enlisted
the assistance of various 1MDB officials with the promise of remuneration. For example, on
or about March 8, 2012, IMDB Official #1 and LOW discussed 1MDB’s acquisition of
Malaysian Energy Company A via an online chat, during which chat LOW stated he would
“[glive [IMDB Official #1] big present” when the transaction was done. In the same chat,

LOW further instructed 1 MDB Official #1 to delete at least one email and other documents he
14

had sent to IMDB Official #1, and stated “delete from email and destroy once done.”
Additionally, LOW informed Co-Conspirator #1 that 1 MDB Official #3 was being paid a
bribe for her assistance in obtaining and retaining the bond deal.

33. The defendants JHO LOW and ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and
others also knew that LOW intended to use funds misappropriated from 1 MDB’s bond deal
to pay and cause to be paid bribes to foreign officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi to
influence those officials to obtain the necessary approvals and any additional assistance to
execute Project Magnolia for U.S. Financial Institution #1.

34.  Inor around the end of May 2012, near the closing of Project
Magnolia, the defendants JHO LOW and ROGER NG continued to conspire with Co-
Conspirator #1 and others to divert some of the funds from Project Magnolia into the bank
accounts of shell companies that NG, LOW, Co-Conspirator #1 and others beneficially
owned and controlled. At this time, NG, LOW and Co-Conspirator #1 expected to keep
some of the diverted funds for their personal use, and understood that other Project Magnolia
funds would be used to pay bribes to government officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi and
elsewhere in exchange for their assistance in obtaining and retaining business for U.S.
Financial Institution #1 with respect to the execution of the bond transaction and the
purchase of Malaysian Energy Company A.

35. Onor about May 20, 2012, Co-Conspirator #1 sent an email asking his
close relative for the account details for a bank account in the name of Holding Company #1
(“Holding Company #1 Account”). Holding Company #1 was a shell company incorporated
in the British Virgin Islands that was owned by this close relative of Co-Conspirator #1 and

was controlled by both Co-Conspirator #1 and his close relative. Co-Conspirator #1 wrote,
15

“(blest if they are US$ accounts. We should also tell the bank that we will receive a
transfer.”

36. Onor about May 21, 2012, the bond deal known as Project Magnolia
closed, earning significant fees for U.S. Financial Institution #1, and resulting in large year-
end bonuses paid by U.S. Financial Institution #1 to the defendant ROGER NG, Co-
Conspirator #1 and other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1 who
participated in obtaining and structuring the bond deal. NG and other employees and agents
of U.S. Financial Institution #1 intentionally structured Project Magnolia, and future
transactions, as bond deals rather than other forms of financing, because doing so generated
much higher revenues and fees for U.S. Financial Institution #1, improved the bank’s
reputational standing in both the Southeast Asia region and globally and provided NG and
other bankers with increased remuneration and professional prestige, even though the bond
financing was more expensive for 1MDB.

37. U.S. Financial Institution #1 transferred part of the proceeds of the
Project Magnolia bond offering via wire to 1MDB’s wholly-owned subsidiary, from a place
within the United States to and through a place outside of the United States, including
through the Eastern District of New York. At the time, the defendants JHO LOW and
ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others knew that a large portion of the proceeds of the
bond would be diverted to themselves and others, including foreign government officials,
through shell companies beneficially owned and controlled by themselves and others.

38. Onor about May 22, 2012, approximately $577 million of the bond
proceeds were transferred from the account of 1 MDB’s wholly-owned subsidiary to Shell

Company Account #1, an account at Foreign Financial Institution A in the name of a
company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands with a name similar to Foreign
Investment Firm A, but which was not in fact associated with Foreign Investment Firm A.
Although the signatories on Shell Company Account #1 were Abu Dhabi Official #1 and
Co-Conspirator #2, the defendant JHO LOW and another co-conspirator controlled Shell
Company Account #1.

39. On or about May 25, 2012, approximately $295 million was transferred
via wire from Shell Company Account #1 to an account at a foreign bank in the name of a
shell company beneficially owned and controlled by the defendant JHO LOW and a co-
conspirator (“Shell Company Account #2”).

40. Within three months of the closing of Project Magnolia, millions of
dollars of bond proceeds that had been transferred to Shell Company Account #2 were
transferred into Holding Company #1 Account, and these funds were transferred via wire to
and from the United States. Approximately $24 million of these funds was subsequently
transferred to a bank account beneficially owned by a relative of the defendant ROGER NG.

41. Within one month of the closing of Project Magnolia, approximately
$133 million of the bond proceeds that had been funneled into Shell Company Account #1
was then transferred to an account at Foreign Financial Institution A opened in the name of a
company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and beneficially owned and controlled by
Co-Conspirator #3, a close relative of Malaysian Official #1 (“Shell Company Account #3”).
Between on or about June 20, 2012 and November 20, 2012, 11 wires totaling approximately
$60 million was then transferred from Shell Company Account #3 to Holding Account #2, an
account at U.S. Financial Institution #2 in Los Angeles, California. Holding Account #2 is

owned and controlled by U.S. Motion Picture Company #1, a U.S. legal entity owned in part

 
17

by Co-Conspirator #3 whose funds, among other things, were used to assist in the production
of the film “The Wolf of Wall Street.”

PROJECT MAXIMUS
42.  Inor about May 2012, the defendants JHO LOW and ROGER NG, Co-

Conspirator #1 and others began to plan a second bond transaction, known internally at U.S.
Financial Institution #1 as “Project Maximus,” which was designed, in part, to raise capital for
1MDB to purchase a second Malaysian power generation company. LOW, NG, Co-
Conspirator #1 and others knew that LOW and others would and did pay bribes to influence
Malaysian and Abu Dhabi officials to obtain the necessary approvals to execute the bond
offering. 1MDB also awarded this bond offering, which was structured similarly to the first
bond issuance, but with an indirect guarantee from Foreign Agency A, to U.S. Financial
Institution #1.

43. As with Project Magnolia, while the defendant ROGER NG,
Co-Conspirator #1 and other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution #1 continued
to work with the defendant JMO LOW to acquire this business for U.S. Financial Institution
#1 and to execute the second bond issuance, they concealed LOW’s involvement in the
transaction from the Compliance Group and the Intelligence Group at U.S. Financial
Institution #1 for the same reasons that they concealed his involvement with Project
Magnolia.

44. The defendants JHO LOW and ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and
others knew that a large portion of the proceeds of Project Maximus would be illegally
diverted to themselves and others, including foreign government officials, through shell

companies beneficially owned and controlled by themselves and others. NG knew at the
y oR RD PS PA a Ph UE RIAN TAS
RAW RS Preactiipnart 73 Raboaed TAS PAS
yes At Bet SAE ST SE ey OREN SS A Ba AS

18

time that Malaysian Official #1, Abu Dhabi government officials and 1 MDB officials,
among others, would receive money from the proceeds of Project Maximus that passed
through bank accounts of various shell companies beneficially owned and controlled by
LOW and others, including Co-Conspirator #1 and his close relative, to influence those
officials to execute the bond with U.S. Financial Institution #1. In fact, NG provided
direction to Co-Conspirator #1’s close relative regarding the transfer of some of these funds.
Abu Dhabi Official #1 and Co-Conspirator #3, among others, received some of the funds
traceable to the Project Maximus bond issuance.

45. Project Maximus closed on or about October 17, 2012, raising
approximately $1.75 billion for a IMDB wholly-owned subsidiary, and resulting in
substantial revenues and other fees for U.S. Financial Institution #1. U.S. Financial
Institution #1 transferred part of the proceeds of Project Maximus via wire to the subsidiary
of IMDB from a place within the United States to and through a place outside of the United
States, including through the Eastern District of New York. Thereafter, some of the
proceeds from the bond offering were diverted and transferred via wire to a place in the
United States from and through a place outside of the United States, and from a place in the
United States to and through a place outside of the United States, including through the
Eastern District of New York.

46. Onor about October 19, 2012, two days after Project Maximus closed,
approximately $790 million of the proceeds of the bond was transferred to and through a
series of shell company accounts beneficially owned and controlled by the defendant JHO

LOW and a co-conspirator. Some of these funds were later transferred to Holding Company
some LOREEN OR ate DN ne ea 8 Pk As et AEE OS OO My a woe BPR EE ct. ok
PPR ae Py yS RRLA ARTS Preactiipnart 73 Slifese? TAYE PTS Meeayeyven TE ee BA Deets tke Ed
eR SRS ae ERA ret ih gas sstets as Se erhegd Pasko ES er eRb ss SSP dbs Sak edi bbeér ioe ae :

oy Pu ER OS fee SA RS BREN! RS AA Ea OD SAN AT I ate AS SOS AANA NS Dae PT

#1 Account and the accounts of Malaysian and Abu Dhabi officials, including various 1 MDB
officials.

47. Within one week of Project Maximus closing, approximately $60
million of the bond proceeds was transferred to Shell Company Account #3. On or about
November 14, 2012, an additional approximately $45 million of bond proceeds was
transferred to Shell Company Account #3. Within approximately one day of the November
14, 2012 transfer, approximately $35.8 million was transferred from Shell Company
Account #3 to U.S. Law Firm Account #1, owned and controlled by U.S. Law Firm #1 based
in New York, New York. Nearly all of these funds were then transferred approximately
four days later to U.S. Law Firm Account #2, owned and controlled by U.S. Law Firm #2
based in New York, New York. These funds were used by Co-Conspirator #3 to acquire a
condominium in New York, New York that was beneficially owned by the defendant JHO
LOW.

48. | Between on or about May 29, 2012 and November 30, 2012, the
defendant JHO LOW and others also caused the transfers via wire of approximately
$472,750,000 traceable to the Project Magnolia and Project Maximus bond proceeds from
Shell Company Account #2 to an account at Foreign Financial Institution B in the name of a
company beneficially owned by Abu Dhabi Official #1 (“Shell Company Account #4”).

49. Between on or about May 29, 2012 and December 3, 2012, the
defendant JHO LOW and others also transferred via wire approximately $55 million
traceable to the Project Magnolia and Project Maximus bond proceeds from Shell Company

Account #2 to the account of a company at Foreign Financial Institution C beneficially
“ ao - “ ~ s $ ss 2

: ree ETE we SSE SS ARLE SAK aA OE PT Ea ee fen gts TS oy ea te Sy aw SR A ET! wy ary ho faen

‘ ar ee 2 PAGE IPR TRAN MD EASES PORTER AE EE ESA Reedhes bk get polo ee RPP SS rsd SY oe Rese PERE St “8

We TREE UL EL PAS a PPA LAS SRY EL POURS AAAS ASS LS PU SALSIE ALAS Ass caah PU ERASE Pi Sh. as
x a

20

owned and controlled by Co-Conspirator #2 and a close relative of Co-Conspirator #2
(“Shell Company Account #5”).

50. Thedefendant ROGER NG knew that some of the bond proceeds from
Project Maximus were transferred by the defendant JHO LOW or at his request to Holding
Company #1 Account in furtherance of the scheme. Thereafter, LOW, NG, Co-Conspirator
#1 and others caused some of these funds to be transferred to the accounts of 1MDB officials
or relatives of such officials, or to the accounts of shell companies beneficially owned and
controlled by 1MDB officials, including 1MDB Official #1 and IMDB Official #2, in
exchange for their assistance in obtaining and retaining business for U.S. Financial
Institution #1.

PROJECT CATALYZE

51. Inor about November 2012, despite having raised over $3 billion in the
prior 11 months, 1MDB sought to raise an additional $3 billion through a third bond issuance
known internally at U.S. Financial Institution #1 as “Project Catalyze.” This bond issuance
was purportedly designed to fund 1MDB’s portion of a joint venture with Foreign Investment
Firm A. U.S. Financial Institution #1 was engaged on the project in or around early 2013
and, again, secured substantial revenues and fees from the deal.

52. As they had with the two prior 1 MDB bond issuances, the defendant
ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and other employees and agents of U.S. Financial Institution
#1 continued to work with the defendant JHO LOW as an intermediary between US.
Financial Institution #1, IMDB officials, Malaysian Official #1 and other foreign government
officials, and they continued to conceal this fact from the Compliance Group, the Intelligence

Group and committees at U.S. Financial Institution #1. Further, although required by
soo rey Ge os
A Mey ese GP Fe TRA
s, Rat Ad Sata 2 oS
wp oS SRR SENG ke omy 2

21

internal policies of U.S. Financial Institution #1, the defendant ROGER NG failed to disclose
that he and Co-Conspirator #1 had received a portion of the funds diverted from the prior
bond transactions through LOW and that LOW, NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and others had |
caused bribes and kickbacks to be paid to 1MDB officials and others who were involved in
the transactions.

53. The Project Catalyze bond issued on or about March 19, 2013. By or
at the direction of the defendant JHO LOW, some of the approximately $3 billion raised by
this bond issuance was transferred to and through a series of transactions to Holding
Company #1 Account, which account was owned and controlled by Co-Conspirator #1 and
his close relative. These misappropriated and embezzled funds were transferred via wire to
a place in the United States from and through a place outside of the United States, and from a
place in the United States to and through a place outside of the United States. Some of these
funds were further transferred via wire to accounts in the name of entities beneficially owned
and controlled by IMDB officials, including 1MDB Official #2 and IMDB Official #3.

More than $4 million of these funds were also transferred via wire to a bank account
beneficially owned by a relative of NG.

54. Within seven days of Project Catalyze closing, the defendant JHO LOW
and other co-conspirators caused the transfers via wire of approximately $1.2 billion in funds
traceable to Project Catalyze to a bank account at Foreign Financial Institution D in the name
of another shell company (“Shell Company Account #6”). Within two months of the closing
of Project Catalyze, LOW caused a client account to be opened in the name of that shell
company (“Shell Company #6”) at Art Auction House #1, an auctioneer of high-end artworks

based in New York, New York. In approximately May 2013, at auctions held at Art Auction

 
22

House #1 in New York, New York, LOW acquired five works of art for approximately $58.3
million in the name of Shell Company #6. The following month, LOW caused
approximately $58.3 million in funds traceable to Project Catalyze to be transferred from
Shell Company Account #6 to Art Auction House #1 to purchase the artworks. Between on
or about July 3, 2013 and September 9, 2013, additional funds traceable to Project Catalyze
totaling approximately $79 million were transferred from Shell Company Account #6 to Art
Auction House #1 to acquire additional artworks.

55. Following the closing of Project Catalyze, through the end of 2014, the
defendant ROGER NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and U.S. Financial Institution #1 sought to obtain
and worked to execute several additional transactions with 1 MDB, particularly focusing on a
proposed initial public offering (“IPO”) of 1MDB’s energy assets (“1 MDB Energy”).
Throughout the time period of these additional transactions, the defendant JHO LOW and
others, including Co-Conspirator #1, continued to pay bribes and kickbacks to certain
Malaysian and 1 MDB officials and others, including from the proceeds of the Project
Catalyze bond and other 1MDB transactions, to influence those officials to award a role for
U.S. Financial Institution #1 in the IPO.

56. On or about June 2, 2014, Co-Conspirator #1 and the defendant JHO
LOW discussed, via electronic chat, efforts to win a position for U.S. Financial Institution #1
in the IMDB Energy IPO, including the need to “suck up to” IMDB Official #2 and to send
“cakes,” referring to bribes, to “madam boss.” In prior email correspondence, the defendant
ROGER NG, LOW and Co-Conspirator #1 referred to the wife of Malaysian Official #1 as
“the Madam.” LOW asked Co-Conspirator #1 if he could transfer money from Shell

Account #1 directly into the account of another company incorporated in the British Virgin

 
Islands and beneficially owned and controlled by Co-Conspirator #1 and his close relative
(“Management Company #1 Account’’) so that Co-Conspirator #1 could “settle madam
cakes 2.”

57. The defendant ROGER NG continued his personal relationship with
Co-Conspirator #1 after NG’s departure from U.S. Financial Institution #1, and continued to
work with Co-Conspirator #1 on other business ventures.

COUNT ONE
(Conspiracy to Violate the FCPA—Bribery)

58. The allegations contained in paragraphs one through 57 are realleged
and incorporated as if fully set forth in this paragraph.

59. In or about and between January 2009 and October 2014, both dates
being approximate and inclusive, within the Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the
defendants LOW TAEK JHO, also known as “Jho Low,” and NG CHONG HWA, also
known as “Roger Ng,” together with others, did knowingly and willfully conspire to commit
offenses against the United States, namely:

(a) being an employee and agent of an issuer, to corruptly make use
of the mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce in furtherance of an
offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the payment of any money, offer, gift,
promise to give, and authorization of the giving of anything of value, to one or more foreign
officials, and to one or more persons, while knowing that all or a portion of such money and
thing of value would be and had been offered, given, and promised to one or more foreign
officials, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign official in his or

her official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and omit to do acts in violation

 
24

of the lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing any improper advantage; and (iv) inducing
such foreign official to use his or her influence with a foreign government and agencies and
instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and decisions of such government and
agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist U.S. Financial Institution #1 and others in
obtaining and retaining business, for and with, and directing business to, NG, LOW, U.S.
Financial Institution #1 and others, contrary to the F CPA, Title 15, United States Code,
Sections 78dd-1, 78ff(a) and 78ff(c)(2)(a); and

(b) while in the territory of the United States, to corruptly make use
of the mails and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce or to do any other act in
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the payment of any
money, offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of the giving of anything of value, to
one or more foreign officials, and to one or more persons, while knowing that all or a portion
of such money and thing of value would be and had been offered, given, and promised to one
or more foreign officials, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign
official in his or her official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and omit to do
acts in violation of the lawful duty of such official; (iii) securing any improper advantage;
and (iv) inducing such foreign official to use his or her influence with a foreign government
and agencies and instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and decisions of such
government and agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist the defendants and others in
obtaining and retaining business, for and with, and directing business to, U.S. Financial
Institution #1, NG, LOW and others, contrary to the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code,

Sections 78dd-3 and 78ff(a).
5

60. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to effect its objects, within the
Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the defendants LOW TAEK JHO, also known
as “Jho Low,” and NG CHONG HWA, also known as “Roger Ng,” together with others,,.
committed and caused to be committed, among others, the following:
OVERT ACTS

(a) Onor about March 23, 2012, LOW met with a banker from
Foreign Financial Institution A in Los Angeles, California, during which meeting LOW
explained Project Magnolia and discussed funds from Project Magnolia that would be sent to
Shell Company Account #1 at Foreign Financial Institution A.

(b) Onor about March 25, 2012, LOW, NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and
others met in Los Angeles, California and New York, New York to discuss, among other
things, matters related to Project Magnolia and the acquisition of the Malaysian Energy
Company A.

(c) On or about April 21, 2012, LOW, NG, Co-Conspirator #1 and
others met with bankers from Foreign Financial Institution A in Singapore and discussed,
among other things, funds from Project Magnolia that would be sent to Shell Company
Account #1 at Foreign Financial Institution A.

(d) On or about May 29, 2012, LOW and others caused
approximately $158 million traceable to the proceeds of Project Magnolia to be transferred
via wire from Shell Company Account #2 through a U.S. correspondent bank to Shell

Company Account #4.
2 REL ER PN reeset Fo Milas! EES ITO
RAW RS Preactiipnart 73 edigaer ds VG 2 Sh MS
ryis Ata fee Sa BREA RL A a

26

(e) Onor about December 19, 2012, LOW and others caused
approximately $5 million traceable to Project Maximus to be transferred from Shell
Company Account #2 to Holding Company #1 Account.

(f) On or about December 20, 2012, LOW, Co-Conspirator #1 and
others caused approximately $1 million traceable to the proceeds of Project Maximus to be
transferred from Holding Company #1 Account to the bank account, for which LOW had
made the banking referral, of a company beneficially owned and controlled by 1MDB
Official #1.

(g) Onor about July 22, 2013, LOW, Co-Conspirator #1 and others
caused approximately $6 million traceable to the proceeds of Project Catalyze to be
transferred from Management Company #1 Account to a bank account, for which LOW had
made the banking referral, of an entity beneficially owned and controlled by 1MDB Official
#3.

(h) Onor about July 29, 2013, LOW, Co-Conspirator #1 and others
caused approximately $1 million traceable to the proceeds of Project Catalyze to be
transferred from Holding Company #1 Account to the account of a company beneficially
owned and controlled by 1MDB Official #2.

(3) On or about September 28, 2013, at LOW’s request, a high-end
New York jeweler (“N.Y. Jeweler #1”) met with LOW, Malaysian Official #1 and the wife
of Malaysian Official #1 at a hotel in New York, New York to show a pink diamond
necklace that N.Y. Jeweler #1 had designed for Malaysian Official #1’s wife.

Approximately three weeks earlier, the pink diamond necklace was purchased using
27

approximately $27.3 million, which funds were sent from a shell company beneficially
owned and controlled by LOW and other co-conspirators.

Gj) On or about October 10, 2014, LOW, Co-Conspirator #1 and
others caused approximately $4.1 million to be transferred via wire from Management
Company #1 Account to the U.S. bank account of N.Y. Jeweler #1, in part, to pay for certain
gold jewelry for the wife of Malaysian Official #1.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371 and 3551 et seq.)

COUNT TWO
(Conspiracy to Violate the FCPA—-Circumvention of Internal Accounting Controls)

61. The allegations contained in paragraphs one through 57 are realleged
and incorporated as if fully set forth in this paragraph.

62. In or about and between January 2009 and May 2014, both dates being
approximate and inclusive, within the Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the
defendant NG CHONG HWA, also known as “Roger Ng,” together with others, did
knowingly and willfully conspire to commit offenses against the United States, namely, to
knowingly and willfully circumvent and cause to be circumvented a system of internal
accounting controls at U.S. Financial Institution #1, contrary to the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(B), 78m(b)(5) and 78ff(a).

63. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to effect its objects, within the
Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the defendant NG CHONG HWA, also known
as “Roger Ng,” together with others, committed and caused to be committed, among others,

the following:

 
OVERT ACTS

(a) Onor about January 15, 2009, a high-ranking official at
1MDB’s predecessor entity, TIA, advised LOW, NG and Co-Conspirator #1 that it was “best
to get [LOW] involve[d] at every stage” of a TIA transaction that was being handled by U.S.
Financial Institution #1.

(b) Onor about January 27, 2009, NG and Co-Conspirator #1
discussed via email whether to disclose to the Intelligence Group at U.S. Financial Institution
#1 LOW’s involvement in the transaction referenced in Paragraph 63(a), and decided not to
make such disclosure.

(c) During a telephone call in mid to late March 2012, Co-
Conspirator #1 falsely stated to a senior member of the Intelligence Group at U.S. Financial
Institution #1 that LOW was not involved in Project Magnolia.

(d) Onor about April 3, 2012, in response to questioning, Co-
Conspirator #1 falsely told a senior member of the Intelligence Group at U.S. Financial
Institution #1 that LOW was not involved in Project Magnolia.

(ec) Onor about April 4, 2012, NG and Co-Conspirator #1 falsely
stated in a committee meeting at U.S. Financial Institution #1 that LOW was not involved in
Project Magnolia other than to set up one meeting with an Abu Dhabi official. The meeting
was attended by committee members and others located in New York, New York using U.S.
Financial Institution #1’s telecommunication facilities, which transited through the Eastern
District of New York.

(f) On or about October 10, 2012, Co-Conspirator #1 falsely stated

in a committee meeting at U.S. Financial Institution #1 that LOW was not involved in
29

Project Maximus. The meeting was attended by committee members and others located in
New York, New York using U.S. Financial Institution #1’s telecommunication facilities,
which transited through the Eastern District of New York.

(g) | Onor about April 24, 2013, Co-Conspirator #1 falsely stated to
a senior employee of U.S. Financial Institution #1 based in New York, New York who was
also a member of a committee that reviewed the 1 MDB bond transactions, that there was no
intermediary involved in any of the three 1 MDB bond transactions and, specifically, that
LOW was not involved in Projects Magnolia, Maximus or Catalyze.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371 and 3551 et seq.)

COUNT THREE
(Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering)

64. The allegations contained in paragraphs one through 57 are realleged
and incorporated as if fully set forth in this paragraph.

65. Inor about and between January 2009 and October 2014, both dates
being approximate and inclusive, within the Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the
defendants LOW TAEK JHO, also known as “Jho Low,” and NG CHONG HWA, also
known as “Roger Ng,” together with others, did knowingly and intentionally conspire to: |

(a) transport, transmit and transfer monetary instruments and funds
from a place in the United States to and through a place outside the United States and to a
place in the United States from and through a place outside the United States, (1) with the
intent to promote the carrying on of one or more specified unlawful activities, to wit: felony
violations of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1, 78dd-3, 78m(b)(2)(B),

78m(b)(5) and 78ff(a), and offenses against a foreign nation involving the misappropriation,

 
30

theft and embezzlement of public funds by and for the benefit of a public official, in
violation of Malaysian Penal Law, contrary to Title 18, United States Code, Section
1956(a)(2)(A); and (ii) knowing that the monetary instruments and funds involved in the
transportation, transmission and transfer represented the proceeds of some form of unlawful
activity, and knowing that such transportation, transmission and transfer was designed in
whole and in part to conceal and disguise the nature, location, source, ownership and control
of the proceeds of one or more specified unlawful activities, to wit: felony violations of the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1, 78dd-3, 78m(b)(2)(B), 78m(b)(5) and
78ff(a), and offenses against a foreign nation involving the misappropriation, theft and
embezzlement of public funds by and for the benefit of a public official, in violation of
Malaysian Penal Law, contrary to Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(a)(2)(B)(i); and
(b) engage in one or more monetary transactions within the United
States involving property of a value greater than $10,000 that was derived from one or more
specified unlawful activities, to wit: felony violations of the FCPA, Title 15, United States
Code, Sections 78dd-1, 78dd-3, 78m(b)(2)(B), 78m(b)(5) and 78ff(a), and offenses against a
foreign nation involving the misappropriation, theft and embezzlement of public funds by
and for the benefit of a public official, in violation of Malaysian Penal Law, knowing that the
funds were the proceeds of some unlawful activities and were in fact proceeds of one or more
specified unlawful activities, to wit: felony violations of the FCPA, Title 15, United States
Code, Sections 78dd-1, 78dd-3, 78m(b)(2)(B), 78m(b)(5) and 78ff(a), and offenses against a

foreign nation involving the misappropriation, theft and embezzlement of public funds by

 
31

and for the benefit of a public official, in violation of Malaysian Penal Law, contrary to Title
18, United States Code, Section 1957(a). |
(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956(h) and 3551 et seq.)
CRIMINAL FORFEITURE ALLEGATION AS TO COUNTS ONE AND TWO
66. The United States hereby gives notice to the defendants that, upon their
conviction of the offense charged in Count One or Count Two, the government will seek
forfeiture in accordance with Title 18, United States Code, Section 981(a)(1)(C) and Title 28,
United States Code, Section 2461(c), which require any person convicted of such offenses to
forfeit any property, real or personal, constituting, or derived from, proceeds obtained
directly or indirectly as a result of such offenses.
67. Ifany of the above-described forfeitable property, as a result of any act
or omission of the defendants:
(a) cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;
(b) has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party;
(c) has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court;
(d) has been substantially diminished in value; or
(ec) has been commingled with other property which cannot be
divided without difficulty;
it is the intent of the United States, pursuant to Title 21, United States Code, Section 853(p),
to seek forfeiture of any other property of the defendants up to the value of the forfeitable
property described in this forfeiture allegation.
(Title 18, United States Code, Section 981(a)(1)(C); Title 28, United States

Code, Section 2461(c))
32

CRIMINAL FORFEITURE ALLEGATION AS TO COUNT THREE
68. The United States hereby gives notice to the defendants that, upon their
conviction of the offense charged in Count Three, the government will seek forfeiture in
accordance with Title 18, United States Code, Section 982(a)(1), which requires any person
convicted of such offense to forfeit any property, real or personal, involved in such offense,
or any property traceable to such property.
69. If any of the above-described forfeitable property, as a result of any act
or omission of the defendants:
(a) cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;
(b) has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party;
(c) has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court;
(d) has been substantially diminished in value; or
(ec) has been commingled with other property which cannot be
divided without difficulty;
it is the intent of the United States, pursuant to Title 21, United States Code, Section 853(p),

as incorporated by Title 18, United States Code, Section 982(b), to seek forfeiture of any
33

other property of the defendants, up to the value of the forfeitable property described in this
forfeiture allegation. |
(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 982(a)(1) and 982(b); Title 21, United

States Code, Section 853(p))

A TRUE BILL

Cc Gh Were.

FOREPERSON

 

   
 

RICHARD P. DONOGHUE
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

ORAH L. CONNOR.
CHIEF |
CRIMINAL DIVISION, MONEY LAUNDERING
AND ASSET RECOVERY SECTION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

  

 

SANDRA L. MOSER

. ACTING CHIEF
CRIMINAL DIVISION, FRAUD SECTION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
F.#: 2016R00467

FORM DBD-34
JUN. 85

 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN District of NEW YORK
CRIMINAL DIVISION

 

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

vS.

LOW TAEK JHO, ALSO KNOWN AS “JHO LOW,” AND NG CHONG
HWA, ALSO KNOWN AS “ROGER NG,”

Defendants.

 

INDICTMENT

(T. 18, U.S.C., §§ 371, 981(a)(1)(C), 982(a)(1), 982(b), 1956(h) and 3551 et seq.;
T. 21, U.S.C., § 853(p); T. 28, U.S.C., § 2461(c))

 

 

 

 

A true bill.
a Sg IT fone.
Filed in open court ws Nee
of A.D.20_
TE Clerk
Bail, $

em mre we i iw

 

Jacquelyn M. Kasulis, Drew G. Rolle, Assistant U.S. Attorneys, (718) 254-7000
Jennifer C. Ambuehl, Katherine A. Nielsen, Mary Ann McCarthy, Nikhila Raj
Trial Attorneys, U.S. Department of Justice (202) 514-2000
10.

11.

   

8-005 3 8. IRIZARRY, CHJ.

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT Mis
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK GOLD,

Title of Case: United States v. Low Taek Jho et al.
Related Magistrate Docket Number(s): N/A
Arrest Date: _N/A

Nature of offense(s): & Felony

LL) Misdemeanor

Related Cases - Title and Docket No(s). (Pursuant to Rule 50.3.2 of the Local
E.D.N.Y. Division of Business Rules): United States v. John Doe, No. 18-CR-439

Projected Length of Trial: Less than6 weeks OU
More than 6 weeks [KX

County in which crime was allegedly committed: Kings
(Pursuant to Rule 50.1(d) of the Local E.D.N.Y. Division of Business Rules)

Was any aspect of the investigation, inquiry and prosecution eine rise to the case
pending or initiated before March 10, 2012.' LiYes Kl No

Has this indictment/information been ordered sealed? Kl Yes OJ No

Have arrest warrants been ordered? Xl Yes ONo
Is there a capital count included in the indictment? LYes No

RICHARD P. DONOGHUE

United States-Attorney

By: + 7a
Jac Me Kasulis
Dr .Ro

Assistant U.S. Attorney
(718) 254-6103/6783

 

1

Judge Brodie will not accept cases that were initiated before March 10, 2012.

Rev. 10/04/12
INDICTMENT SEALING FORM

Case name: United States v. Low Taek Jho, et al.

Reason for Sealing:
The defendants are currently at liberty and located overseas, and the government plans to begin the process of
executing their arrest in the coming weeks by seeking their extradition to the United States. The government
seeks to seal the indictment to ensure that the defendants do not learn that they are under indictment and to prevent
them from fleeing justice to avoid arrest and prosecution. Specifically, neither Low Taek Jho nor Ng Chong Hwa
are United States citizens, and are believed to be currently located outside of the United States. The government
is concerned that revelation of the indictment at this stage would result in the defendants’ flight from justice by,
among other things, relocating to, or remaining in, a country from which extradition to the United States would not
be possible. Notably, the indictment has been returned well within the applicable statute of limitations and

sealing is not requested simply to toll the statute.

~ (Aral LM Date: October 3, 2018

rew/G. Roll \_,
“Assistant United Vee Attorney
United States Attorney’s Office
Eastern District of New York
271 Cadman Plaza East
Brooklyn, New York 11201
