Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Tyson Foods with FCPA Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2011-42

Washington, D.C., Feb. 10, 2011 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today charged Tyson Foods Inc. with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act (FCPA) by making illicit payments to two Mexican government
veterinarians responsible for certifying its Mexican subsidiary’s chicken
products for export sales.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 21851
» SEC Complaint

 

The SEC alleges that Tyson de Mexico initially concealed the improper
payments by putting the veterinarians’ wives on its payroll while they
performed no services for the company. The wives were later removed from
the payroll and payments were then reflected in invoices submitted to Tyson
de Mexico by one of the veterinarians for “services.” Tyson de Mexico paid
the veterinarians a total of $100,311. It was not until two years after Tyson
Foods officials first learned about the subsidiary’s illicit payments that its
counsel instructed Tyson de Mexico to cease making the payments.

Tyson Foods agreed to pay more than $5 million to settle the SEC’s charges
and resolve related criminal proceedings announced today by the Department
of Justice.

“Tyson and its subsidiary committed core FCPA violations by bribing
government officials through no-show jobs and phony invoices, and by having
a lax system of internal controls that failed to detect or prevent the
misconduct,” said Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement.

According to the SEC’s complaint filed in federal court in the District of
Columbia, the scheme occurred during fiscal years 2004 to 2006. In order to
export products, meat-processing facilities in Mexico must obtain certification
through an inspection program administered by Mexico’s federal government
and supervised by an office in the Mexican Department of Agriculture. Tyson
de Mexico participated in the program in order to export goods to Japan and
other countries. The two veterinarians involved were responsible for certifying
Tyson de Mexico’s chicken products for export and served as official Mexican
government veterinarians at Tyson de Mexico’s facilities.

The SEC’s complaint alleges that a Tyson de Mexico plant manager
discovered the wives on the payroll in June 2004 and informed a Tyson Foods
accountant of the situation. After subsequent meetings involving Tyson Foods
and Tyson International officials, the payroll payments to the veterinarians’
wives were replaced with invoice payments to one of the veterinarians. An
executive of Tyson International approved this approach.

The SEC alleges that in connection with these improper payments, Tyson
Foods failed to keep accurate books and records and failed to implement a
system of effective internal controls to prevent the salary payments to
phantom employees and the payment of illicit invoices. The improper
payments were improperly recorded as legitimate expenses in Tyson de
Mexico’s books and records and included in Tyson de Mexico’s reported
financial results for fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006. Tyson de Mexico’s
financial results were, in turn, a component of Tyson Foods’ consolidated
financial statements filed with the SEC for those years.

Without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, Tyson Foods consented to
the entry of a final judgment ordering disgorgement plus pre-judgment
interest of more than $1.2 million and permanently enjoining it from violating
the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the
FCPA, codified as Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. The proposed settlement is subject to court approval.

In a related criminal information filed today, the Department of Justice
charged Tyson Foods with conspiring to violate the FCPA and violating the
FCPA. DOJ and Tyson Foods agreed to resolve the charges by entering into a
deferred prosecution agreement. Tyson Foods has agreed to pay a $4 million
criminal penalty.

The SEC’s case was investigated by Allen Flood and Conway Dodge of the
SEC’s Division of Enforcement. The SEC acknowledges the cooperation of
Tyson Foods in the investigation. The SEC acknowledges and appreciates the
assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Fraud Section and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Cheryl J. Scarboro,
Chief, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403

Conway T. Dodge

Assistant Director, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4748

http://www.sec.gov/news/opress/2011/2011-42.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 02/10/2011
