UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 85149 / February 15, 2019

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 4021 / February 15, 2019

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-19000

 

 

 

In the Matter of ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
SOLUTIONS CORPORATION, EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER
I

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation
(“Cognizant” or “Respondent”.

Il

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
lit

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds' that:

Summary

1. These proceedings arise from violations of the antibribery, books and records, and
internal accounting controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”).
[15 U.S.C. § 78dd]. Cognizant is a global provider of information technology and business process
services. Much of its business involves using technically skilled workers around the world,
including in India, to provide such services to companies in the United States and Western Europe.
Between 2014 and 2016 Cognizant, acting through executives in the United States and India,
authorized contractors to pay on the company’s behalf and reimbursed them for a total of
approximately $3.6 million in bribes to Indian government officials to obtain government
construction-related permits and operating licenses in connection with the construction and
operation of commercial office buildings.

2. In 2014 Cognizant authorized a contractor to pay a $2 million bribe to a senior
government official for the issuance of a planning permit for a project in Chennai, India. The
payment, along with a scheme to conceal a $2.5 million reimbursement to the contractor, was
authorized by two senior executives at Cognizant’s U.S. headquarters. In 2013 and 2014,
Cognizant’s Indian subsidiary authorized the same third party contractor to pay a bribe of
approximately $770,000 to a government official for an environmental clearance for a project in
Pune, India. In 2015, the Indian subsidiary retroactively authorized and reimbursed the same third
party contractor for approximately $870,000 in bribes that it had paid to government officials for
construction-related permits in Siruseri, India. Cognizant received ill-gotten gains of approximately
$16,394,351 as a result of the conduct.

3. The unlawful payments were paid from Cognizant India’s bank accounts and were
not accurately reflected in Cognizant’s consolidated books and records. During the relevant period
Cognizant also failed to devise and maintain a sufficient system of internal accounting controls at its
corporate headquarters and at Cognizant India. This conduct took place in an environment in which
Cognizant failed to adequately enforce its corporate antibribery and anticorruption policies.

4. As a result of its conduct Cognizant violated Exchange Act Sections 30A,
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B).

Respondent

5. Cognizant is a New Jersey corporation headquartered in Teaneck, N.J. Throughout
the relevant period its common stock was registered with the Commission under Exchange Act

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on

any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
Section 12(b) and publicly traded on NASDAQ (symbol: CTSH). Cognizant files annual and
quarterly reports under Exchange Act Section 13. Although it operates in several countries, the
majority of Cognizant’s operations are conducted in India through Cognizant India, its largest
subsidiary.

Other Relevant Individuals and Entities

6. Senior Executive-1 served in several senior executive positions at Cognizant in the
United States until his resignation in 2016.

7. Senior Legal Executive-1 served in Cognizant’s legal function in the United States
until his resignation in 2016.

8. Operations Officer-1 served in a senior operation role based in India until 2016.
9, Real Estate Officer-1 served in Cognizant India’s corporate workplace function.
10. Contracting Firm-1 is a multinational engineering and construction firm based in

India. It is publicly traded on exchanges in India but its securities are not registered with the
Commission.

Facts
Bribe Payments in Chennai, Tamil Nadu

11. Cognizant’s construction project in Chennai, referred to as the KITS campus,
represents the company’s largest owned facility in India, encompassing 2.7 million square feet
with a capacity for approximately 17,500 employees. Cognizant engaged Contracting Firm-1 to
build the facility and obtain all necessary government permits. Construction began in 2011 prior to
the issuance of a required planning permit.

12. In 2014, during the course of construction, Real Estate Officer-1 was made aware
that an Indian government official had made a $2 million bribe demand to Contracting Firm-1 as a
condition for issuing the planning permit. Real Estate Officer-1 passed the information along to
his supervisor, Operations Officer-1. On April 21 and 22, 2014, the demand was discussed by
video conference among Real Estate Officer-1, Operations Officer-1, Senior Executive-1, and
Senior Legal Executive-1. Senior Executive-1 and Senior Legal Executive-1 participated in the
conference from the United States. Real Estate Officer-1 described the bribe demand in detail,
asked Senior Executive-1 and Senior Legal Executive-1 for guidance on how to proceed, and
suggested that Contracting Firm-1 could be reimbursed for the payment through a series of sham
change order requests to its contract. Senior Legal Executive-1 approved the method of
reimbursement and Senior Executive-1 authorized both the bribe payment and the suggested
method for disguising it. Real Estate Officer-1 was given the task of executing the scheme. His
direct supervisor Operations Officer-1 made no objection.

13. In addition to discussing the bribe demand and the suggested method of disguising
the reimbursement during the videoconferences, Senior Executive-1 directed his subordinates to
withhold future payments to Contracting Firm-1 if it resisted paying the bribe on Cognizant’s
behalf. Contracting Firm-1, which had been urging Cognizant to make the payment itself,
ultimately yielded to Senior Executive-1’s pressure and made the payment in late May or early
June 2014. Cognizant received the planning permit in November of that year.

14. Following Real Estate Officer-1’s suggestion, Cognizant concealed the $2.5 million
reimbursement to Contracting Firm-1, including both the $2 million bribe and a $500,000
commission for paying it, through a series of falsified contract change orders. Real Estate
Officer-1 selected change order requests from Contracting Firm-1 invoices that Cognizant had
previously rejected and retroactively “accepted” them, adjusting the cost amounts so that they
would total $2.5 million. The falsified invoices and supporting Excel spreadsheets were forwarded
to Senior Executive-1 for approval, with copies to Operations Officer-1. Senior Executive-1
approved payments in February and March 2015, and the payments were made to Contracting
Firm-1 in installments between March 2015 and January 2016.

Bribe Payment in Pune, Maharashtra

15. The bribe scheme in Pune also involved the construction of a commercial office
facility with Contracting Firm-1 as Cognizant’s builder. Construction began in 2012, prior to the
issuance of necessary permits. On this occasion, Cognizant India authorized Contracting Firm-1 to
pay an Indian official $770,000 in return for issuing an environmental clearance. The payment was
made in early 2013, and the environmental clearance was issued thereafter. In April of that year,
Contracting Firm-1 sought reimbursement through a change order request with a line item for
“Liasoning [sic] and consultations charge towards Environmental clearance.” Cognizant India
rejected the change order, but later approved the payment after Contracting Firm-1 changed the
rationale to “Change in the make of Workstation from Featherlite to Art matrix.” Cognizant India
reimbursed Contracting Firm-1 for the bribe payment in January 2014.

Bribe Payment in Siruseri, Tamil Nadu

16. In Siruseri, Cognizant India authorized Contracting Firm-1 to pay bribes totaling
$840,000 to government officials for the issuance of several construction-related permits, including
a planning permit, a power permit from the local electricity board, and an environmental clearance.
Contracting Firm-1 made the payments in or around 2012, and Cognizant subsequently received
the permits in the second half of that year. The contractor submitted change order requests for
several inflated or unjustified work items. Cognizant India rejected the initial requests, but later
approved the change orders after the sham descriptions were revised. Cognizant India reimbursed
Contracting Firm-1 for the bribe payments in installments between 2015 and 2016.

Bribes for Operating Licenses

17. In addition to payments involving the above construction projects, Cognizant India
also made approximately $27,000 in bribe payments to government officials for the purpose of
obtaining certain operating licenses at six Indian facilities. The payments were made between
2013 and early 2016, mostly by lower to mid-level employees in Cognizant India’s corporate
workplace services department, with the assistance of collusive third party vendors. The licenses
were for kitchen operating facilities, air and water consents, fire protection, and other purposes
related to operation of the buildings. The payments were disguised in Cognizant’s books and
records by the use of false generic descriptions, such as “liaison,” “consulting,” and
“miscellaneous” charges.

Legal Standards and Violations

18. Under Exchange Act Section 21C(a), the Commission may impose a cease-and-
desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of
the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or
would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known
would contribute to such violation.

FCPA Violations

19. Exchange Act Section 30A prohibits any issuer with a class of securities registered
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or any officer, director, employee, or agent acting on
behalf of such issuer, in order to obtain or retain business, from corruptly giving or authorizing the
giving of, anything of value to any foreign official for the purposes of influencing the official or
inducing the official to act in violation of his or her lawful duties, or to secure any improper
advantage, or to induce a foreign official to use his influence with a foreign governmental
instrumentality to influence any act or decision of such government or instrumentality. [15 U.S.C.
§ 78dd-1].

20. As described above, Cognizant paid bribes to an Indian government official to
induce that official to direct that a permit be issued to facilitate the completion of a construction
project. Cognizant made use of the means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce by hosting
video conferences at which American executives participated in formulating the scheme and by
exchanging email messages to and from the United States to approve the concealing of the
payment. Two U.S. senior executives at Cognizant took active steps to advance the scheme, and
Cognizant is liable for their conduct by respondeat superior. As a result, Cognizant violated
Exchange Act Section 30A.

21. Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) requires every issuer with a class of securities
registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 to make and keep books, records, and accounts,
which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the
assets of the issuer. [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

22. Cognizant violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) by falsely characterizing
illicit payments to government officials as legitimate business expenses in its books and records.

23. Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B) requires every issuer with a class of securities
registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 to devise and maintain a system of internal
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (11) transactions are recorded as
necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain
accountability for assets; (111) access to assets 1s permitted only in accordance with management’s
general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with
the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any
differences. [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

24. Cognizant violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) by failing to devise and maintain a
sufficient system of internal accounting controls at its corporate headquarters and at Cognizant
India. Cognizant’s system for handling contractor change orders in India permitted managers to
conceal bribe payments through the manipulation of bogus construction charges. The company’s
procurement process did not include an effective review of the disbursement of funds for change
orders. Nor did it include an effective review of the application or renewal of facility permits and
licenses. Cognizant also did not adequately enforce its corporate policy against making improper
payments to government officials. And it failed to provide reasonable assurances that its Indian
subsidiary maintained accurate and complete records of transactions involving payments to
government officials.

Cognizant’s Self-Disclosure, Cooperation, and Remedial Efforts

25. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered Respondent’s self-
disclosure, cooperation, and remedial efforts. Cognizant voluntarily disclosed this misconduct to
the Commission staff and timely shared the facts developed during the course of an internal
investigation by the audit committee of its board. Cognizant also cooperated by voluntarily
producing and translating documents, and making current or former employees, including those
who needed to travel internationally, available for interviews by the Commission staff.

26. Cognizant’s remedial actions included: (i) terminating or imposing other discipline
on officers and employees who participated in or were aware of the improper conduct;
(11) appointing new executive personnel, including a new president, general counsel, and heads of
global real estate and procurement; (111) enhancing its existing compliance function and headcount;
(iv) consolidating its facility management operations and removing licensure responsibilities from
third parties; (v) enhancing its internal accounting controls and compliance functions with respect
to the construction of new facilities; (vi) enhancing its FCPA compliance policies relating to due
diligence and contracting of vendors and suppliers; and (vii) conducting enhanced anticorruption
training.

Undertakings
Respondent Cognizant has undertaken to:
27. Cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all investigations, litigations or

other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in the Order. Cognizant agrees
that cooperation includes the following:
a. On an ongoing basis, producing, without service of a notice or subpoena, to
the Commission nonprivileged documents and other materials, wherever
located, in Respondent’s possession, custody, or control, and appropriate
privilege logs, as requested by the Division of Enforcement’s (“Division”)
staff and within 14 days of request unless otherwise agreed to in writing by
the Division’s staff;

b. Using its best efforts to secure the full, truthful, and continuing cooperation
of Respondent’s current and former directors, officers, employees and
agents, including making those persons available for interviews and the
provision of testimony in any and all investigations, litigation or other
proceedings relating to or arising from matters described in the Order when
requested to do so by the Division’s staff, at Respondent’s expense;

C. Using its best efforts to ensure its directors, officers and employees respond
to all inquiries related to any and all investigations, litigation or other
proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in the Order
and any related proceedings when requested to do so by the Division’s staff;
and

d. Using its best efforts to ensure its directors, officers, and employees testify
at trial and other judicial or administrative proceedings when requested to
do so by the Division’s staff.

28. In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these
undertakings.

IV

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent Cognizant’s Offer.

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Cognizant cease and
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 30A,
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.

B. Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$16,394,351, prejudgment interest of $2,773,017, and a civil monetary penalty of $6,000,000 to the
Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional
interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717 or SEC Rule of Practice 600. Payment must be
made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Cognizant as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles E. Cain, Chief, FCPA Unit,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC
20549.

C. Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action” means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.

D. Respondent undertakes to:

1) Report to the Commission staff periodically during a two-year term, the
status of its remediation and implementation of compliance measures, particularly as to
the areas of due diligence on prospective and existing third-party consultants and
vendors, FCPA training and the testing of relevant controls including the collection and
analysis of compliance data. During this period, should Respondent discover credible
evidence, not already reported to Commission staff, that questionable or corrupt
payments or questionable or corrupt transfers of value may have been offered, promised,
paid, or authorized by Respondent, or any entity or person acting on behalf of
Respondent, or that related false books and records have been maintained, Respondent
shall promptly report such conduct to the Commission staff. During this two-year period,
Respondent shall: (1) conduct an initial review and submit an initial report and

(2) conduct and prepare two follow-up reviews and reports, as described below:

a. Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff a written report
within 180 calendar days of the entry of this Order setting forth a complete
description of its FCPA and anti-corruption related remediation efforts to date, its
proposals reasonably designed to improve the policies and procedures of
Respondent for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and other applicable
anticorruption laws, and the parameters of the subsequent review (the “Initial
Report”). The Initial Report shall be transmitted to Robert I. Dodge, Assistant
Director, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC, 20549-5631. Respondent may extend the time period for
issuance of the Initial Report with prior written approval of the Commission staff.

b. Respondent shall undertake two follow-up reviews, incorporating
any comments provided by the Commission staff on the previous report, to further
monitor and assess whether the policies and procedures of Respondent are
reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws (the “Follow-Up Reports”).

C. The Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 270
days after the Initial Report. The second Follow-up Report shall be completed by
no later than 450 days after the completion of the Initial Report. Respondent may
extend the time period for issuance of the Follow-up Reports with prior written
approval of the Commission staff.

d. The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Respondent will
likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive business
information. Public disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation,
impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the
objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the
reports and the contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain
nonpublic, except (a) pursuant to court order, (b) as agreed by the parties in
writing, (c) to the extent that the Commission staff determines in its sole
discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Commission’s discharge
of its duties and responsibilities, or (d) is otherwise required by law.

e. During this two-year period of review, Respondent shall provide
its external auditors with its annual internal audit plan and reports of the results of
internal audit procedures and its assessment of its FCPA compliance policies and
procedures.
f. During the two-year period of review, Respondent shall provide
Commission staff with any written reports or recommendations provided by
Respondent’s external auditors in response to Respondent’s annual internal audit
plan, reports of the results of internal audit procedures, and its assessment of its
FCPA compliance policies and procedures.

2) Certify, in writing, compliance with the undertaking(s) set forth above.
The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of
compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to
demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for
further evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The
certification and supporting material shall be submitted to Robert I. Dodge, Assistant
Director, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC, 20549-5631 no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the
completion of the undertakings.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

10
