Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 21156 / July 28, 2009

Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3020 / July 28,
2009

Securities and Exchange Commission v. Avery Dennison Corporation,
United States District Court for the Central District of California, Civil
Action No. CV09-5493 DSF (CWx)

SEC FILES SETTLED CHARGES AGAINST AVERY DENNISON
CORPORATION FOR VIOLATING THE BOOKS AND RECORDS AND
INTERNAL CONTROLS PROVISIONS OF THE FOREIGN CORRUPT
PRACTICES ACT

The Securities and Exchange Commission today filed two settled enforcement
proceedings against Avery Dennison Corporation (“Avery”), a Pasadena,
California-based multinational corporation, alleging violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) in connection with improper payments and
promises of improper payments to foreign officials by Avery’s Chinese
subsidiary and several entities Avery acquired.

The SEC filed a civil action in the United States District Court for the Central
District of California charging Avery with violations of the books and records
and internal controls provisions of the FCPA and seeking a civil penalty. The
SEC also issued an administrative order finding that Avery violated the same
provisions of the FCPA. In the administrative proceeding, the SEC ordered
Avery to cease and desist from such violations, and to disgorge $273,213,
together with $45,257 in prejudgment interest. In the federal civil action,
Avery agreed to the entry of a final judgment requiring it to pay a civil penalty
in the amount of $200,000.

The SEC’s complaint and administrative order charge that, from 2002 through
2005, the Reflectives Division of Avery (China) Co. Ltd. (“Avery China”) paid
or authorized the payments of kickbacks, sightseeing trips, and gifts to
Chinese government officials. The amount of illegal payments actually paid
amounted to approximately $30,000. In one transaction, Avery China secured
a sale to a state-owned end user by agreeing to pay a Chinese official a
kickback of nearly $25,000 through a distributor. Avery China realized
$273,213 in profit from this transaction, which it inaccurately booked as a
sale to the distributor rather than to the end user. In addition, after Avery
acquired a company in June 2007, employees of the acquired company
continued their pre-acquisition practice of making illegal petty cash payments
to customs or other officials in several foreign countries, resulting in illegal
payments of approximately $51,000. Avery failed to accurately record these
payments and gifts in the company’s books and records, and failed to
implement or maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to
detect and prevent such illegal payments or promises of illegal payments.

As a result of the conduct described above, the SEC charged that Avery
violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. Avery consented to the ordered relief without admitting or denying
either the findings contained in the SEC’s administrative order, or the
allegations of the SEC’s complaint.

The SEC acknowledges the assistance of the United States Department of
Justice.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http. /www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2009/Ir21156.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 07/30/2009
