Oo wonn wn SF WY NO =

—
So

I]
12
13
14
IS
16
17
18
19
20
ZA
22
Z3
24
25
26
zy
28

OQ
©
“UY
<<

FINOLA H. MANVELIAN, Cal. Bar No. 180681 : om
E-mail: manvelianf@sec.gov Se
MARSHALL SPRUNG, Cal. Bar No. 188253 Pc
E-mail: sprungm@sec.gov OF
JUNLING MA, Cal. Bar No. 213241
E-mail: maj@sec.gov

1B
3

oa
roles.

Attorneys for Plaintiff a

Securities and Exchange Commission

Rosalind R. Tyson, Regional Director
Andrew G. Petillon, Associate Regional Director
John M. McCoy III, Regional Trial Counsel
5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11th Floor

Los Angeles, California 90036-3648

Telephone: +353) 965-3998

eo :OlHY 82 Wn" cle
qa

aivu

bongo

Facsimile: (323) 965-3908

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

Pes AND EXCHANGE Case Nd Yi () 9 549 2p$ F (cw)
Plaintiff, COMPLAINT

VS.
AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION,
Defendant.

 

 

1. | This matter involves violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”) by Avery Dennison Corporation (“Avery”) through its indirect
subsidiary, Avery (China) Co. Ltd. (“Avery China”), and several acquired entities.
Zi From 2002 through 2005, Avery China’s Reflectives Division paid or
authorized the payments of several kickbacks, sightseeing trips, and gifts to
Chinese government officials. The amount of illegal payments actually paid
amounted to approximately $30,000. In addition, after Avery acquired a company
in June 2007, employees of the acquired company continued their pre-acquisition
practice of making illegal petty cash payments to customs or other officials in

several foreign countries, resulting in illegal payments of approximately $51,000.

 

 
proved.

oo NDA UW B&B WwW WN

mM NM bw NHN NY YN KH HB Be BR Re Be ee Se ee
Oo DOA A BB BY SKF OO mW NT AO nN BP WYN KF CO

 

 

The payments and promises to pay were made with the purpose and effect of
improperly influencing decisions by foreign officials to assist Avery entities to
obtain or retain business. |
| 3. Avery failed to accurately record these payments and gifis in the

company’s books and records, and failed to implement or maintain a system of
internal accounting controls sufficient to detect and prevent such illegal payments
or promises of illegal payments. |

4. By engaging in the conduct described in this Complaint, Avery
violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the “Exchange Act”), 15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 7&8m(b)(2)(B).

| _ JURISDICTION AND VENUE

5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d)
and 27 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d) and 7Baa. The defendant,
directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate
commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in
connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in
this Complaint. -

6. Venue is proper in this district pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange

Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78aa. Many of the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of

conduct constituting violations of the laws alleged in this Complaint occurred within

the Central District of California, and the defendant may be found in this district.
DEFENDANT |
7. Avery is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Pasadena,
California. It operates in over sixty countries and develops, manufactures and

markets a wide range of products, including self-adhesive materials, office

products, labels and graphics imaging media. Its common stock is registered with

the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is listed on the

New York Stock Exchange.

 
SD oT A vA BR ww

Co ~~] NN AON BR WwW NSB ODO OO WOH DA HBP WD NY O&O

 

 

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY

8. Avery China is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Avery headquartered in
Shanghai, China. It is incorporated under the laws of China and wholly owned by
Avery Dennison Hong Kong BV, which is in turn wholly owned by Avery
Dennison Group Danmark ApS, which is in turn wholly owned by Avery Dennison
Corporation. The Reflectives Division is part of Avery China and 1s currently part
of Avery’s Graphics Division. Avery China is overseen by Avery’s Asia Pacific
Group, an unincorporated group based in Hong Kong within the Avery Dennison
Hong Kong BV entity. |

FACTS
A. Payments and Promises of Payments by Avery China’s Reflectives Division
Promises of Payments to Wuxi Institute Officials

9. Avery China sells reflective materials through the Reflectives
Division. Reflective materials are commonly used in printing, road signs and
emergency vehicle markings. In China, the Ministry of Public Security requires
that all products used in road communications and safety meet certain requirements
as certified by an authorized government entity. One such entity is called the
Traffic Management Research Institute. under the Ministry of Public Security
located in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province (“Wuxi Institute”). The Wuxi Institute helps
formulate project plans, draft product and project specifications, and tests pilot
projects, and as such could play an important role in awarding government
contracts. From early 2004, Avery China’s then-national manager for the
Reflectives Division (“Reflectives China National Manager’) sought to obtain

business through the Wuxi Institute. As part of that effort, in January 2004, an

Avery China sales manager accompanied four Wuxi Institute officials to a meeting

and bought each a pair of shoes with a combined value of approximately $500.
10. In May 2004, Avery China hired a former Wuxi Institute official as a

sales manager for the Reflectives Division, because his wife was also an official at

- 3

 
oO ey NH nH HBP WY NH KE

 

 

the Wuxi Institute who was in charge of two projects that Avery China wanted to
pursue: a “digital license plate” project for which Avery China had previously bid
unsuccessfully, and a pilot project to develop a new graphic design for police cars.

11. In August 2004, Avery China was awarded two government contracts
through the Wuxi Institute to install new graphics on approximately 15,400 police
cars for two Chinese government entities. The Reflectives China National
Manager obtained these contracts by agreeing to artificially increase the sales price
and then refund that amount back to the Wuxi Institute as a “consulting fee.” In
doing so, he understood at least a portion of that refunded amount would be for the
benefit of Wux1 Institute officials. The total sales under the two contracts were
$677,494, and Avery China profited by approximately $363,953. However,
Avery’s Asia Pacific Group discovered the kickback scheme before any illegal
payment was made. The attempted illegal payments would have amounted to
approximately $41,138, or 6% of the total sales. |

2002 Sightseeing Trip

 

12. In December 2002, another Reflectives Division salesman proposed,

and the Reflectives China National Manager approved, hosting a sightseeing trip

for five government officials with a budget of about RMB 35,000, or $4,227. Two

reimbursement requests were used to conceal the expenses for the trip (one of
which was altered at some point in time).

Attempted Kickback to Project Manager at State-owned Entity

13. In August 2004, the Reflectives China National Manager approved a

kickback payment to an official at Henan Luqiao, a state-owned enterprise, to
secure a sales contract. The total sales under this contract were approximately
$106,562, and Avery China profited by $61,381 . However, Avery China
discovered the kickback arrangement and never made the promised payment to the

official at Henan Lugiao, which would have amounted to approximately $2,415.
Hi
Oo Oo YN DH WO FP W NH

mo NY NH Kw KH WH NH KN NO KR BR RK KF KS PS SEO Se El
on ON OW BP WHY NY FP Oo Oo wmOH DN FP WW NY KF O&O

 

 

Kickback Arranged through Product Distributor (Hefei Anchang)

14. From May to June 2005, a Reflectives Division sales manager .
negotiated a sale to a state-owned end user. To secure the sale, the sales manager
agreed to pay a commission to a project manager at the end user. He then asked a
distributor to fill the order and fund the agreed upon commission out of what
ordinarily would have been the distributor’s profit. The transaction was booked as a
sale to the distributor, rather than to the end-user. The distributor claimed to have
paid the project manager approximately $24,752 out of its own profit margin. The
total sales in the transaction were $466,162, and Avery China profited by $273,213.

| 2005 Sightseeing Trip

15. In late 2005, during a sales conference that Avery China sponsored in
a famous Chinese tourist destination, the successor to the Reflectives China
National Manager paid for sightseeing trips for at least four government officials.

The manager later attempted to cover up both his role in planning the trip and the

sightseeing during the conference. He asked his secretary to alter the conference

invoice by reallocating the sightseeing expenses to other expense categories, and

|| have the travel agency submit the changed invoice to Avery China for payment..

The changed invoice did not contain any sightseeing expenses; rather, they were

buried in expenses for rooms, meals, and transportation. The total cost for the

conference (which had more than 40 attendees overall) was approximately $15,500.
B. Improper Payments by Employees of Acquired Companies |

16. In 2005, Avery integrated the operations of an Indonesia contractor it
had acquired. The contractor operated out of a bonded zone in Indonesia, and had a
practice of paying approximately $100 each to three customs officials who regularly
visited its warehouse to inspect goods. The contractor continued the practice after
the acquisition. To obtain cash for the payments, an employee of the acquired
subsidiary obtained $10 petty cash on a daily basis for the $300 needed each month,

and the accounting entry reflected $10 of travel expense each day for the employee.

5

 
Oo wo HTD A Fe WY NY

 

 

17. In June 2007, Avery acquired Paxar Corporation, a NYSE listed
company. In September 2007, through a whistleblower, Avery discovered that
Paxar employees in Indonesia made illegal payments to customs and tax officials
to obtain bonded zone licenses and to overlook bonded zone regulatory violations,
and that the former general manager of Paxar Indonesia directed employees to
fabricate fake invoices to conceal illegal payments. An internal audit review also
uncovered payments to customs officials in Pakistan made by Paxar Pakistan
through its customs broker. In April 2008, Avery commenced a global trade

compliance review in twenty-seven countries, which included an FCPA review. In

July 2008, Avery commenced a more comprehensive FCPA review in ten high risk

countries, including China. Beyond the illicit payments identified at Paxar

|| Indonesia and Paxar Pakistan, the ten country review has also identified

problematic payments in Paxar China. In all three locations, illicit payments were
made both before and after the acquisition, with the latest illicit payment occurring ~
in January 2008. The post-acquisition payments amount to $5,000, $30,000 and
$16,000 at Paxar Indonesia, Paxar Pakistan, and Paxar China, respectively.
FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
RECORD KEEPING violations
violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act

18. The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Jf 1 through
17 above. |

19. By failing to make or keep books, records and accounts that in
reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and disposition of
its assets, Avery violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. §
78m(b)(2)(A).
Hf
{if
Hf

 
hB moO bo HN NH HN HN WHY NO RFR RS Fe RR RP Se SO SS Se
oO ~) DB A FP WH bw KH DTD DO YF HYD HR A BP WH we KS OS

Co Oo HN WB SP W WH Ke

 

 

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF
INTERNAL CONTROLS violations
violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act
20. The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference §{] 1 through
17 above. —

21. By failing to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions were recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and to maintain the
accountability of assets, Avery violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act,
15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B).

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court:

(a) Issue an Order requiring defendant Avery to pay a civil penalty
pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3), and

(b) Grant such other and further relief as this Court may determine to be

just and necessary.

 

  
  

DATED: july, 2009 | if

orney for Plaintiff OO
Securities and Exchange Commission
