Case Pit-or-O7056-DLC Document) Filed 2/42/11 Fage 1 of 40
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT .

DGE ¢
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK : ORIGINAL

—

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

- Vv. - INDICTMENT

URIEL SHAREF, IM .
HERBERT STEFFEN, : 1 1 CR 1 0 5 6
ANDRES TRUPPEL, wl

ULRICH BOCK, :

EBERHARD RETICHERT,

STEPHAN SIGNER,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CARLOS SERGI, and _— RSbeSBNY
DOCUMENT
Defendants. . ELECTRONICALLY FILED
. DOC #: /
oo DATE FILED: DEC 12 2011
COUNT ONE

(Conspiracy to Commit Bribery, Falsify Corporate Books and
Records, Circumvent Internal Controls, and Commit Fraud)

The Grand Jury charges:

Relevant Entities and Persons

 

1. At all times relevant to this Indictment, Siemens
Aktiengesellischaft (hereafter referred to as “Siemens AG,” and
collectively with its operating groups, divisions, subsidiaries, and
affiliates as “Siemens”), was an engineering company headquartered
in Munich, Germany that had more than 400,000 employees and
operations in approximately 190 countries worldwide, including the
United States. Siemens AG’s business primarily involved developing,

constructing, selling, and servicing equipment and systems for
national, state, and municipal governments. The company employed
more than 60,000 people in the United States, derived substantial
revenue from sales in the United States, and maintained its U.S.
headquarters in Manhattan, New York.

2. As of March 12, 2001, Siemens AG was listed on the
New York Stock Exchange and was an “issuer,” as that term is used
in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. See 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1(a).

3. Siemens AG had a “Supervisory Board” anda “Managing
Board,” in accordance with German law. The Supervisory Board, which
served a function similar to that of a U.S. company’s board of
directors, appointed and removed members of the Managing Board and
oversaw management, but was not permitted to make management
decisions. The Managing Board, or the Vorstand, was responsible for
Managing Siemens’s business operations and generally was comprised
of 10 members. Siemens AG also had a Corporate Executive Committee
(“CEC”), or the Zentral Vorstand, which was comprised of members of
the Managing Board, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), among select others.
Members of the CEC were assigned advisory responsibility, under the
title of “Coach,” for particular areas and regions of Siemens’s
global business operations and special projects. In turn, senior
executives at the group or regional level provided monthly reports

to the CEC, briefed the CEC on major projects and other matters of

-2-
Case Pit-or-O7056-DLC Document) Filed 2/42/11 Fage 3 of 40

significance, and regularly engaged with the Coach assigned to their
area or region.

4. Siemens’s worldwide operations were carried out by
operating groups of Siemens AG based in Germany, and by an array of
regional Siemens companies situated around the globe.

5. The projects for which Siemens was hired worldwide
were typically run out of Germany by units within the Siemens AG
operating groups, with support, as needed, from regional companies.
These units within the Siemens AG operating groups sometimes took
the form of wholly owned subsidiaries of Siemens AG, and typically
were themselves split into various subdivisions, with names like
“Major Projects.” The operating group unit subdivisions were
responsible for day-to-day project management, and generally
consisted of two components: a “commercial” side, which oversaw the
project’s administration and finances; anda “technical” side, which
provided operational oversight. This dual-management structure
served a checks-and-balances function, which was also promoted by
a set of principles and guidelines to which managers adhered in
conducting Siemens’s business. One such rule, known as the “4-eye
principle,” required signatures of two managers, one commercial and
one technical, to authorize third-party disbursements on projects.

6. At all times relevant to this Indictment, Siemens

Business Services GmbH & Co. OGH (“SBS”), headquartered in Munich,

~ 3 -
Germany, was a wholly owned subsidiary of Siemens AG and a unit in
Siemens AG’s information and communications operating group. SBS
designed, built, operated, maintained, and serviced both discrete
and large-scale information and communication systems for public and
private sector customers around the globe. SBS had its own board
and executive management, including a CEO and CFO, who interacted
with the Managing Board and CEC at Siemens AG headquarters, as well
as with the Coaches assigned either to SBS specifically or to the
region in which SBS was operating a project.

7. At all times relevant to this Indictment, Siemens
Power Transmission and Distribution (“Siemens PTD”) was a unit in
Siemens AG's power operating group. Siemens PTD designed,
manufactured, sold, and serviced power generation equipment,
software, and network control equipment.

8. At all times relevant to this Indictment, Siemens S.A.
(“Siemens Argentina”), based in Buenos Aires, Argentina, was one of
Siemens’s regional companies and a controlled subsidiary of Siemens
AG. Siemens Argentina had its own board and executive management,
including a CEO and CFO, who interacted with the Managing Board and
CEC, as well as with the Coach assigned to the Americas region.
Siemens Argentina’s principal responsibility was to sell Siemens’s
business services in Argentina, mainly by identifying and securing

contracts for public works projects.

- 4 -
9. At all times relevant to this Indictment, Siemens IT
Services S.A. (“SITS”) was a special-purpose subsidiary created by
SBS in Argentina for the purpose of bidding for the “DNI” or Documento

Nacional de Identidad project, which is discussed in further detail

below.
The Defendants
10. The following individuals are defendants who were
“officer[s], director[s], employee[s], [and] agent[s]” of an

“issuer,” Siemens AG, as those terms are used in the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, see 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1l(a):

a. URIEL SHAREF, a dual citizen of Israel and
Germany, was employed by Siemens from in or about 1978 to on or about
December 31, 2007. From on or about October 1, 2000, until his
departure from Siemens, SHAREF was a member of Siemens AG’s Managing
Board and CEC, with oversight responsibilities as Coach for Siemens
AG's power operations group, including Siemens PTD, and Siemens AG's
operations in the Americas region, including Siemens Argentina.
Prior to his appointment to the Managing Board and CEC, SHAREF held
regional management positions at Siemens AG’s subsidiaries and
affiliates covering areas in Latin America, including Colombia,
Venezuela, Ecuador, and Peru. From in or about December 2000 to in
or about September 2003, SHAREF was chairperson of the Supervisory

Board of Siemens Argentina.
Case Pit-or-O7056-DLC Document) Filed P2211 Fage 6 of 40

b. HERBERT STEFFEN, a citizen of Germany, was
employed by Siemens from in or about 1960 to in or about 2003. From
in or about 1996 until his departure from the company, STEFFEN was
group president of Siemens AG’s transportation systems operating
group. Previously, STEFFEN was a group president of Siemens PTD.
From in or about 1983 to in or about 1989, STEFFEN was CEO of Siemens
Argentina, and from in or about 1989 to in or about 2000, he was
chairperson of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Argentina.
Previously, STEFFEN had worked for Siemens in Germany, Argentina,
and Brazil.

c. ANDRES TRUPPEL, a dual citizen of Germany and
Argentina, was employed by Siemens from in or about 1977 to in or
about 2002, and thereafter was a consultant to Siemens until in or
about 2004. From inor about 1996 until his shift to consultant status,
TRUPPEL was CFO of Siemens Argentina. Previously, he had worked for
Siemens in Germany, the United States (in San Francisco and Seattle),
and Mexico.

d. ULRICH BOCK, a citizen of Germany, was employed
by Siemens from in or about 1965 to in or about 2001, and was a paid
consultant to Siemens thereafter until in or about May 2007. From
in or about 1997 to in or about 2001, BOCK was commercial head of
SBS's Major Projects subdivision. Previously, BOCK worked for

Siemens in Germany, Austria, and France.
e. EBERHARD REICHERT, a citizen of Germany, was
employed by Siemens from in or about 1964 to in or about 2001. From
the late 1990s to in or about 2001, REICHERT was technical head of
SBS’s Major Projects subdivision.

f. STEPHAN SIGNER, a citizen of Germany, was
employed by Siemens from in or about 1979 to in or about 2011, with
relatively brief hiatuses. From in or about 2000 to in or about 2007,
SIGNER worked for SBS as a commercial director in various capacities.

11. The following individuals are defendants who were
associated with Siemens AG and served as “agents” of Siemens AG as
that term is used in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, see 15 U.S.C.
§ 78dd-1(a), and intermediaries between Siemens and officials of the
Government of Argentina (collectively, the “Intermediary
Defendants”):

a. CARLOS SERGI, a citizen of Argentina, was a
prominent businessman in Latin America with extensive high-level
government contacts in Argentina. He was, for a period of 15 years
ending in or about 2003, a member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens
Argentina, overlapping with URIEL SHAREF, the defendant.

b. MIGUEL CZYSCH, a citizen of Germany anda
resident of Switzerland, was a business associate of CARLOS SERGI,

the defendant.
Case Pit-or-O7056-DLC Document) Filed 2/42/11 Fage 8 of 40

Co-Conspirators

12. Co-Conspirator #1, a co-conspirator not named herein
as a defendant, was an attorney in Buenos Aires, Argentina and a
former senior official in the Argentine Ministry of Justice.

13. Co-Conspirator #2, a co-conspirator not named herein
as a defendant, was an attorney in Buenos Aires, Argentina anda
former senior official in the Argentine Ministry of Justice.

14. Co-conspirator #3, a co-conspirator not named herein
as a defendant, was employed by Siemens from in or about 1964 to in
or about 2000. Co-conspirator #3 was CEO of Siemens Argentina from
in or about 1996 until his departure from the company.

15. Co-conspirator #4, a co-conspirator not named herein
as a defendant, was employed by Siemens from in or about 1972 to in
or about 2002. In or about 1993, Co-conspirator #4 became a deputy
general counsel in the Legal Services office at Siemens AG
headquarters, and continued to serve that function in a consulting
capacity from in or about 2002 through the 2000s.

16. Co-conspirator #5, a co-conspirator not named herein
as a defendant, was a business partner of CARLOS SERGI, the defendant.

17. Co-conspirator #6, a co-conspirator not named herein
as a defendant, was a business partner of MIGUEL CZYSCH, the

defendant.
Case Tit-or-O7056-DLC Document) Filed 2/42/11 Fage 9 of 40

Overview of the Conspiracy

18. In or about August 1994, the Government of Argentina
issued a tender for bids to replace an existing system of manually
created national identity booklets with state-of-the-art national
identity cards (the Documento Nacional de Identidad or “DNI” project).
The total estimated value of the DNI project was approximately $1
billion. After bids for the project were solicited by the Argentine
Ministry of the Interior, Siemens AG, SBS, and Siemens Argentina
organized a multinational consortium to bid on the contract through
SITS. Bids were submitted on or about December 27, 1996, and on or
about February 19, 1998, the President of Argentina issued a decree
awarding the DNI project to SITS. The contract for the DNI project
was executed by SITS and the Ministry of the Interior on or about
October 6, 1998.

19. From in or about 1996 up to and including on or about
August 12, 2009, URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL,
ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL
CZYSCH, the defendants, and others known and unknown, engaged ina
conspiracy on behalf of Siemens to obtain the lucrative proceeds of
the DNI project, and to foster future business, by means of bribery,
fraud, and other forms of corruption. Members of the conspiracy won
the DNI project for Siemens by bribing Argentine government officials.

They paid more bribes in the hope of reviving the project when, in

- 9 -
or about 2001, the DNI project was stalled. Ultimately, and as
discussed in more detail below, the DNI project was terminated
altogether. Even after that point, members of the conspiracy
continued to pursue the profits that Siemens had expected to gain
from the project. They did so through additional bribes and corrupt
conduct, including the pursuit of a fraudulent arbitration in
Washington, D.C. against the Argentine government, demanding nearly
$500 million while actively hiding the corruption from the tribunal.

20. Some of the conspirators were employed by Siemens as
executives, lawyers, and managers working on DNI project matters;
others served as agents and conduits for the payment of bribes to
Argentine government officials who were in a position to influence
the direction of the DNI project. Integral to the conspiracy, and
to the concealment of the illegal objects of the conspiracy, was the
conspirators’ use of at least 17 conduit entities (collectively, the
“Conduit Entities”) controlled or otherwise affiliated with the
Intermediary Defendants and with various Argentine government
officials and candidates for office who were the recipients or
intended recipients of bribe payments (the “Argentine Officials”).

Means and Methods of the Conspiracy

21. Among the means and methods used by URIEL SHAREF,

HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT,

STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, and

- 10 -
co-conspirators known and unknown, to achieve the objects of the
conspiracy were the following:

a. using cash and withdrawals of funds from
general-purpose accounts at Siemens AG to make bribe payments and,
thereby, make those illicit transactions more difficult to detect;

b. using deceptive accounting maneuvers to give
bribe payments the appearance of legitimacy and otherwise make those
corrupt transactions more difficult to detect;

Cc. using the Intermediary Defendants and the
Conduit Entities as conduits in transacting bribe payments to
insulate Siemens, the bribe recipients, and the defendants from
potential adverse consequences of the corrupt transactions;

d. transferring funds between and through accounts
held by the Conduit Entities, as well those held by other entities,
to conceal that the funds were to be used in whole and in part to
pay bribes and to conceal the identities of the parties to these
corrupt transactions;

e. creating the illusion that the Intermediary
Defendants were business consultants in connection with the DNI
project, even though the Intermediary Defendants provided no such
consulting services on the DNI project, to give bribe payments the

appearance of legitimacy;

- 11 -
Gase iitt-cr-f?OS6-DLC Document? Filed T2/ie/ii Page t2 of 40

£. mischaracterizing bribes in the corporate books
and records of Siemens AG as consulting fees and other seemingly
legitimate expenses;

g. using off-books accounts as a way to conceal
corrupt payments;

h. using accounts controlled by Siemens AG
business divisions and subsidiaries having no connection to the DNI
project as a way to conceal corrupt payments;

i. causing Siemens to enter into consulting
“contracts” with many of the Conduit Entities — which were situated
at off-shore locations, such as the Bahamas, the British Virgin
Islands, Guernsey in the Channel Islands, the Cayman Islands, Panama,
Switzerland, and Uruguay — even though these companies provided no
legitimate service to Siemens, on the DNI project or otherwise, to
give bribe payments the appearance of legitimacy;

j- issuing “invoices” to Siemens that requested
payment for services, and authorizing reimbursement for those
services, even though no such services had been provided to Siemens,
on the DNI project and otherwise, to give bribe payments the
appearance of legitimacy;

k. circumventing Siemens AG’s compliance and
ethics program, including internal and external audits aimed at

detecting criminal conduct;

- 12 -
Gase iiti-cr-f?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/ii Page 13 of 40

1. giving bribe payments the appearance of
legitimacy by disguising them as funds used to settle an arbitration
proceeding before an otherwise legitimate international tribunal;

m. engaging in witness tampering by making payoffs
to witnesses and otherwise obstructing justice to prevent the
exposure of bribery to the public and governmental authorities;

n. engaging in an international money laundering
conspiracy by transferring bribe payments through bank accounts held
in the United States, as more fully described in Count Two;

Q. defrauding the Argentine government of money by
means of materially false and fraudulent pretenses, representations,
and material omissions, as more fully described in Count Three; and

p. concealing the corrupt manner in which Siemens
won the DNI project, concealing the corrupt relationship between
Siemens and the Intermediary Defendants, and concealing evidence of
corruption in international arbitrations.

Initial Bribe Commitments and Payments
22. In or about February 1998, when the DNI project was
initially awarded to Siemens, Co-conspirator #3 and ANDRES TRUPPEL,
the defendant, were respectively CEO and CFO of Siemens Argentina,
and ULRICH BOCK and EBERHARD REICHERT, the defendants, were
respectively the commercial and technical managers of SBS’s Major

Projects subdivision in charge of the DNI project.

- 13 -
Gase iiit-cr-f?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/ii Page 14 of 40

23. To secure the DNI project for Siemens, Co-conspirator
#3, and co-conspirators known and unknown, committed Siemens to
paying nearly $100 million in bribes to sitting officials of the
Argentine government, members of the opposition party, and
candidates for office who were likely to come to power during the
performance of the project. Central to the negotiation of these bribe
commitments was CARLOS SERGI, the defendant, who helped Siemens form
the consortium that bid for the DNI project, but whose value to the
conspiracy was his access to influential members of the Argentine
government and role as a facilitator, along with MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendant, Co-conspirator #5, and Co-conspirator #6, for the payment
of bribes to those officials.

24. During the early stages of the DNI project, up to
approximately late 1999, members of the conspiracy caused Siemens
to pay bribes in partial satisfaction of the commitments caused by
Co-conspirator #3 and facilitated by CARLOS SERGI, the defendant.
Many of these payments were not made pursuant to written contracts,
as was Siemens’s standard business practice for third-party
disbursements on projects. Rather, these payments were made pursuant
to what members of the conspiracy referred to as “black contracts”
— that is, unwritten contracts. SERGI and Co-conspirator #3 paid
some of the bribe payments themselves, and later sought reimbursement

from Siemens. Other bribe payments were made through more

- 14 -
Gase iiti-cr-O?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/ii Page 15 of 40

complicated mechanisms intended to conceal the illicit nature of the
transactions and the identities of the recipients of the funds. For
example:

a. ULRICH BOCK, the defendant, and co-conspirators
known and unknown, made cash withdrawals from Siemens AG
general-purpose accounts in Germany totaling approximately $10
million. BOCK then transported the cash across the border into
Switzerland, and deposited the funds into Swiss bank accounts for
transfer to Argentine government officials. BOCK and others used
cash to make the transaction more difficult to detect.

b. BOCK and EBERHARD REICHERT, the defendant, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS to pay millions of
dollars to three of the Conduit Entities (Pepcon Corporation S.A.,
a Costa Rican company, and Mirror Development Inc. and Finli Advisors
Group Inc., both organized under the laws of Panama) under the guise
of invoices for “consulting services” purportedly rendered by the
three Conduit Entities in Chile, Brazil, and Mexico, respectively,
in connection with the DNI project. In truth, the purported
“consulting services” were neither performed nor relevant to the DNI
project. The payments to Pepcon Corporation S.A. were intended as
bribe payments to a senior official in the Office of the President
in the 1980s and 1990s and a candidate for office and member of the

Argentine Congress at various points in the 2000s (“Argentine

- 15 -
Gase tiit-or-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 16 of 40

Official A”); the payments to Mirror Development Inc. were intended
as bribe payments to a senior official in the Ministry of the Interior
in the 1990s and a member of the Argentine Congress in the late 1990s
and early 2000s (“Argentine Official B”); and the payments to Finli
Advisors Group Inc. were intended as bribe payments to a senior
official in the Ministry of Migration and the Office of Internal
Security in the 1990s, and a member of the Argentine Congress in the
2000s (“Argentine Official C”).

Cc. BOCK, REICHERT, ANDRES TRUPPEL, the defendant,
and co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS to transfer two
wires in the aggregate amount of approximately $7.4 million to a bank
account in Manhattan, New York, ostensibly to settle a foreign
exchange hedging contract with a foreign currency company organized
under the laws of the Bahamas and not named in this Indictment
(“Company #1”). The payments were charged to the DNI project, even
though the hedging contract served no legitimate business purpose.
In reality, the hedging transaction was a device to conceal bribes
to some of the Argentine Officials.

25. In or about 1998 and 1999, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, ANDRES TRUPPEL, the defendants, and co-conspirators known
and unknown, also caused Siemens to make millions of dollars of
payments to CARLOS SERGI and MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, and other

intermediaries. These payments, which were transferred through

- 16 -
Gase iitt-cr-O?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/it Page 1? of 40

Conduit Entities, were intended to be bribe payments to several of
the Argentine Officials, in partial satisfaction of bribe
commitments and to reimburse SERGI for bribe payments he had
previously advanced to several of the Argentine Officials; and
otherwise to facilitate the conspiracy. For example, members of the
conspiracy caused SBS to make transfers of 1,850,000 deutschmarks
and 3,582,000 Swiss francs (the equivalent of more than $3.6 million)
to Masters Overseas Corporation, a Conduit Entity organized under
the laws of the British Virgin Islands, and two payments in the
aggregate amount of approximately $15 million to Air Traffic Control
Corporation, a Conduit Entity organized under the laws of the Cayman
Islands. Siemens Argentina also paid Co-Conspirator #1, a former
senior official in the Argentine Ministry of Justice, a fee of $5
million dollars to set up shell companies through which bribes would
be paid to the Argentine Officials.

Bribe Commitments to Officials of the New Administration

And the Consolidation of Prior Bribe Commitments
For Payment Under a “White Contract”

26. In or about May 1999, with work on the DNI project
underway, the Government of Argentina suspended the project, as the
country faced a mounting economic crisis anda presidential election.
A new administration, which came to power in or about December 1999,

maintained the suspended status of the DNI project.

-~17 -
Gase tiit-or-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 18 of 40

27. In or about early 2000, Siemens AG’s CEC exercised
increased control over business matters in Argentina. HERBERT
STEFFEN, the defendant, was assigned oversight responsibility for
matters in Argentina, with instructions to continue the DNI project
at “whatever the cost,” according to an internal Siemens document.
At the time, STEFFEN was a senior executive at Siemens AG in Germany,
but he had served as CEO of Siemens Argentina in the 1980s and chairman
of that company for over a decade, during which time he had developed
substantial Argentine government contacts. Then, later in 2000,
URIEL SHAREF, the defendant, who had substantial experience with
Siemens’s business interests in Latin America, was appointed to the
Managing Board and CEC and given oversight responsibilities, as Coach,
for operations in the Americas, including Argentina and the DNI
project.

28. URIEL SHAREF and HERBERT STEFFEN, the defendants, led
a campaign on Siemens’s part to restart the DNI project.
Renegotiation of the contract governing the DNI project was a part
of the campaign. STEFFEN lobbied Argentine government officials,
as did ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, and ANDRES TRUPPEL, the
defendants. In mid-December 2000, SHAREF met in Buenos Aires with
a senior official in the office of the Argentine President

(“Argentine Official D”). The meeting engendered optimism at Siemens

- 18 -
Gase iitt-cr-O?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/ii Page 19 of 40

that the President of Argentina would soon issue a decree authorizing
the resumption of the DNI project.

29. Continuing the payment of bribes was part of the
conspirators’ effort to revive the DNI project. In or about the Fall
of 2000, as the negotiations over the contract progressed, HERBERT
STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, CARLOS
SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, and co-conspirators known and
unknown, discussed the subject of bribes in meetings in Germany and
Argentina. At these meetings, the conspirators caused Siemens, and
SBS specifically, to commit to satisfying a significant portion of
the balance of prior bribe obligations to Argentine Officials A, B,
and C, among other officials, and to commit to paying additional
bribes to officials of the new Administration, including Argentine
Official D, a senior official in the Ministry of the Interior in the
early 2000s and a member of the Argentine Congress in the mid-2000s
(“Argentine Official E”), a senior official in the Ministry of the
Interior in the early 2000s and a candidate for office in the
Argentine Congress in the mid-2000s (“Argentine Official F”), and
a senior official in the Ministry of Interior in the early 2000s
(“Argentine Official G”).

30. At these meetings, the conspirators also discussed
the manner in which the bribes would be paid. They agreed to funnel

payments on all existing and new bribe obligations through the

- 19 -
Case tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 20 of 40

Intermediary Defendants. They also agreed to conceal the bribe
payments under a “white contract” —that is, a contract that appeared
legitimate on its face, but which did not reflect an actual
transaction of business. Specifically, the conspirators agreed to
consolidate a portion of the bribe obligations into a sham $27 million
contract between SBS and Mfast Consulting AG (“Mfast”), one of the
Conduit Entities controlled by the Intermediary Defendants (“the
Mfast Contract”). Members of the conspiracy preferred this “white
contract” device to the prior practice of making payments under
so-called “black contracts” that did not exist at all. By hiding
the payment of bribes through a sham contract with one of the Conduit
Entities, the conspirators made it more difficult for the conspiracy
to be discovered.

31. In or about January 2001, the Mfast Contract was
executed by ULRICH BOCK and EBERHARD REICHERT, the defendants, on
behalf of SBS, and by Co-conspirator #6, on behalf of Mfast.
Co-conspirator #5 had participated in creating the contract. The
contract described services on the DNI project that purportedly had
already been performed by Mfast, but in reality those services had
not actually been performed and were not expected to be performed.

32. By in or about March 2001, the anticipated decree
authorizing the resumption of the DNI project still had not issued.

The Argentine government was instead conducting an assessment of the

-~ 20 -
Gase iiti-cr-f?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/it Page 21 of 40

merits of continuing the DNI project through a body called
Sindicarura General de la Nacidén (the General Accounting Agency of
the Nation, referred to hereafter as “SIGEN”).

33. Ina further effort to prevent termination of the DNI
project, members of the conspiracy determined to influence SIGEN’s
assessment in Siemens’s favor by bribing a SIGEN board member
(“Argentine Official H”). To this end, ANDRES TRUPPEL and EBERHARD
REICHERT, the defendants, caused SBS to pay nearly $1 million to
Co-Conspirator #2, an attorney and former official in the Argentine
Ministry of Justice who, as TRUPPEL understood, was a close friend
of Argentine Official H. The bribe payments were disguised as
lobbying expenses.

The Crisis Management Team and the Response to the Termination

34. Despite Siemens’s efforts and bribe payments
intended for various foreign officials, the Government of Argentina
officially terminated the DNI project in or about May 2001. Siemens
AG responded at the CEC level: URIEL SHAREF, the defendant, who was
a CEC member and Coach of the Americas region, assembled a “Crisis
Management Team” (“CMT”), consisting of SBS and Siemens Argentina
managers and Siemens AG lawyers. SHAREF assigned overall
responsibility for coordinating the CMT’s activities to
Co-conspirator #4, an in-house lawyer for Siemens, and the SBS

manager in charge of the DNI project, STEPHAN SIGNER, the defendant,

- 21 -
Gase iitt-cr-O?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/ii Page 22 of 40

who had effectively replaced ULRICH BOCK, the defendant, who was in
semi-retired status. ANDRES TRUPPEL, the defendant, and
co-conspirators not named as defendants in this Indictment, were also
named to the CMT. In addition, SHAREF directed that HERBERT STEFFEN,
the defendant, would provide necessary support to the CMT’s efforts.

35. In furtherance of the conspiracy, the conspirators
- acting through the CMT and otherwise - continued the bribe scheme
to (i) ensure that Siemens recognized the economic benefits of the
contract for the DNI project, notwithstanding its termination and
the corrupt manner by which it had been procured, (ii) prevent public
disclosure of the bribery associated with the DNI project, and (iii)
ensure Siemens’s ability to secure future government contracts in
Argentina and elsewhere in the region. The conspirators sought to
achieve these related goals by paying down outstanding bribe
obligations to Argentine Officials through a complex series of
transactions, paying down bribe obligations through a sham
arbitration in Switzerland, and seeking to recoup the anticipated
financial benefits of the DNI project through a fraudulent
arbitration in Washington, D.C.

Payments of the Outstanding Bribe
Obligations through Complex Transactions

36. On or about July 5, 2001, ANDRES TRUPPEL and ULRICH
BOCK, the defendants, met in Miami, Florida, with CARLOS SERGI and

MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, to re-negotiate the amount of the
- 22 -
Gase tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 23 of 40

outstanding bribe commitments to the Argentine Officials. TRUPPEL
and BOCK agreed to seek payment of this amount from SBS through the
previously executed Mfast Contract.

37. Payment of additional bribes proved more difficult
than anticipated, however, because of Siemens’s own internal
controls. To circumvent those controls, members of the conspiracy
were forced to employ less direct means of payment. Ultimately, they
succeeded, causing Siemens to pay more than $28 million to the
Argentine Officials and the Intermediary Defendants between in or
about 2002 and in or about 2007. Three of the payments towards the
outstanding bribe debt were as follows:

- $5.2 million, in or about July 2002;

- $9.5 million, in or about April and July 2003; and

~ $4.7 million, in or about January and February 2004.

The July 2002 Partial Payment of $5.2 Million

38. In or about July 2002, the conspirators caused SBS
to pay approximately $5.2 million to the Argentine Officials and the
Intermediary Defendants. The payment was made through Meder Holding
Corporation S.A. (“Meder”), a company registered in Uruguay that was
associated with ANDRES TRUPPEL, the defendant, and through bank
accounts held by the Conduit Entities. The conspirators used
fictitious invoices and an illusory consulting contract to give the

payments the appearance of legitimacy. In or about May 2002, TRUPPEL

- 23 -
sent to STEPHAN SIGNER, the defendant, a series of four Meder invoices
that requested payment for “market development in Chile and Uruguay,”
and provided wire transfer instructions for payment through a bank
account in Manhattan, New York. Even though SBS had not sought or
contemplated Meder’s services, in or about June 2002 an SBS manager
executed a consultancy contract with Meder, which was backdated to
on or about October 3, 2000, to make it appear that services had
previously been provided, even though no services were provided at
any time. Thereafter, payment was made to Meder, pursuant to Meder’s
invoices, through the New York-based account. Once the payment
reached Meder, a significant portion of the money was forwarded
through bank accounts in Manhattan, New York, to accounts held
elsewhere by Milmar Ltd. and Pine Top Corporation, two of the Conduit
Entities. Milmar Ltd. was a company organized under the laws of the
British Virgin Islands. It was associated with addresses in the
British Virgin Islands and two addresses in Miami, Florida. One of
the Miami addresses — a residential ranch-style house — was the same
address with which Masters Overseas Corporation and Tidwell
Investments S.A., two other Conduit Entities, were associated.

Plans for Payment of the Balance of the Outstanding
Bribe Obligations

39. The Meder payment was only a partial payment of the

outstanding bribe obligations, and CARLOS SERGI, the defendant,

- 24 -
Gase tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2‘f_e/ii Page 25 of 40

continued to put pressure on other members of the conspiracy to pay
the remaining debt.

40. In or about August 2002, HERBERT STEFFEN and ANDRES
TRUPPEL, the defendants, met in Madrid, Spain with CARLOS SERGI, the
defendant, and Argentine Official C. After the meeting, TRUPPEL and
STEFFEN faxed a handwritten note to URIEL SHAREF, the defendant,
explaining that “the situation with respect to the familiar themes
{had] reached a critical point again,” and that the “plan to gain
time using certain strategies [was] apparently failing.” A month
later, SERGI sent a letter to SHAREF urging Siemens to make additional
payments, suggesting that the payments would help Siemens secure
“future projects,” and offering to mediate the dispute with the
“client” —a reference to the Argentine Officials. By a second letter,
in December 2002, SERGI asked SHAREF to meet with him in January 2003
and warned of “damage to the image and good reputation” of Siemens
if it did not come up with a “proper solution.”

41. On or about January 15, 2003, URIEL SHAREF, the
defendant, traveled to Manhattan, New York, in part to discuss the
outstanding bribe obligations with CARLOS SERGI, the defendant.
Within a week, SHAREF met with HERBERT STEFFEN and ANDRES TRUPPEL,
the defendants, in Munich, Germany, to prepare them for a meeting
soon thereafter with SERGI and Argentine Official C. SHAREF

instructed STEFFEN and TRUPPEL to appease SERGI and Argentine

- 25 -
Gase tiit-cr-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 26 of 40

Official C by assuring them that SHAREF himself would authorize
additional bribe payments, and that SHAREF would be amenable to using
as a mechanism for partial payment an arbitration claim that SERGI
was threatening to bring in Switzerland against SBS for breach of
the Mfast Contract.

Payment of $9.5 Million

42. Meanwhile, however, more immediate action needed to
be taken. In or about mid-February 2003, SERGI warned TRUPPEL and
STEFFEN, by letter, that if Siemens did not satisfy the outstanding
bribe obligations by making additional payments, “we will forgo the
confidentiality requested by the Company from the start of the
project for its entire duration,” adding that this “might well be
detrimental to the image of the Corporation and its managers.” SERGI
was more blunt in a note attached to the letter, threatening to upend
Siemens AG's arbitration claim in Washington, D.C. by exposing the
bribery. For example, SERGI wrote that the “questionable procedures
and criticism of the competitive bidding . . . [would] doubtlessly
generate a problem at public sector level that would make a positive
resolution of the claim by Siemens filed in Washington against the
Argentine Government impossible, and result in a loss for the
Company.” TRUPPEL forwarded the letter and note to SHAREF,
suggesting that the missives were indicative of the “pressure we are

under.”

~ 26 -
fe
‘Sag
Sh
ca
So
a5)
M2
tend
o
Ae
ae.
=

43. Inor about early March 2003, to satisfy CARLOS SERGI,
the defendant, and the Argentine Officials, URIEL SHAREF and ANDRES
TRUPPEL, the defendants, orchestrated a complex transaction
involving two Siemens AG operating groups, an entity in Dubai, United
Arab Emirates (“Company #2”), and two of the Conduit Entities with
bank accounts in the Bahamas, all of which resulted ina set of
disguised transfers, in the aggregate amount of approximately $9.5
million, from Siemens to the Argentine Officials and the Intermediary
Defendants in April and July 2003. SHAREF initiated the transaction
by directing that a payment be arranged by Siemens PTD, a division
of Siemens AG's power operating group. SHAREF was the CEC’s Coach
for the power operating group, as he was for the Americas region.
Company #2, using wiring instructions provided by TRUPPEL,
transferred funds in a corresponding amount to bank accounts held
in the Bahamas by Chatarella Investors Ltd. and Rockney Consultants
Ltd., two of the Conduit Entities. Siemens PTD reimbursed Company
#2 for the payments, disguising them as payments related to a project
in China. Over the next several months, at SHAREF’S direction,
Siemens PTD recouped the payment from SBS, through a series of
fictitious credits for services that were not actually performed.
In or about December 2003, STEPHAN SIGNER, the defendant, told

Co-conspirator #4 that approximately $10 million had been paid to

- 27 -
Gase tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 28 of 40

the “friends” of the Intermediary Defendants — that is, the Argentine
Officials.

Payment of $4.7 Million

44, In late January and early February 2004, members of
the conspiracy reduced the outstanding bribe obligation even further
by causing SBS to make four more payments, in the aggregate amount
of approximately $4.7 million, to the Argentine Officials and the
Intermediary Defendants. The payments were transferred to bank
accounts held by four of the Conduit Entities — Consultora Neelrey
S.A of Uruguay, Linfarm Inc. S.A. of Uruguay, Rodmarton Ltd. of the
British Virgin Islands, and Silverlinks Company Ltd. of Guernsey in
the Channel Islands — all of which were controlled by the Intermediary
Defendants and other intermediaries. ANDRES TRUPPEL and STEPHAN
SIGNER, the defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, used
backdated invoices for phantom services to make the payments look
like legitimate business expenditures.

The Partial Payment of $8.8 Million, Disguised
As a Settlement of SERGI’s Swiss Arbitration Claim

45. CARLOS SERGI, the defendant, filed a formal claim on
behalf of Mfast against SBS in a Swiss arbitral tribunal on or about
March 15, 2005. The stated purpose of the arbitration was to enforce
the Mfast Contract. Although the members of the conspiracy knew that
none of the services described in the Mfast contract were performed

and were not expected to be performed, and that the Mfast Contract
- 28 -
Gase tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 29 of 40

was a sham used to disguise illegal bribe obligations, none of the
conspirators acknowledged as much before the Swiss tribunal.

46. To the contrary, URIEL SHAREF and URLICH BOCK, the
defendants, provided testimony before the arbitral tribunal in which
they omitted any mention of bribery, and STEPHAN SIGNER, the
defendant, and Co-conspirator #4 otherwise caused Siemens to prevent
disclosure of any evidence of corruption in the proceedings. For
example, SIGNER arranged to have BOCK, who had retired from Siemens
by the time of the Swiss arbitration, paida “consulting” fee of more
than $300,000 in exchange for giving testimony in the Swiss and
Washington, D.C. arbitrations that omitted mention of bribery. As
BOCK would later acknowledge in an email requesting payment of his
“consulting” fee, “I have arranged my witness statements ... in
such a way that Siemens is protected from damage. ."

47. In or about October 2006, URIEL SHAREF and STEPHAN
SIGNER, the defendants, Co-conspirator #4, and co-conspirators known
and unknown, caused SBS to settle Mfast’s claim for approximately
$8.8 million. Although an arbitration settlement on its face, the
settlement was actually a mechanism to disguise a partial payment
of bribe obligations to the Argentine Officials.

48. On or about January 16, 2007, SBS caused a wire
transfer of the settlement amount into a Swiss bank account

controlled by attorneys for Mfast. The next day, substantially the

- 29 -
Case tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2‘f_e/ii Page 30 of 40

same amount was transferred to two of the Conduit Entities associated
with CARLOS SERGI, the defendant, and other intermediaries, through
bank accounts in Manhattan, New York.

The Washington, D.C. Arbitration

49. In furtherance of the conspiracy, URIEL SHAREF and
STEPHAN SIGNER, the defendants, Co-conspirator #4, and other members
of the Crisis Management Team, orchestrated the filing of a
fraudulent arbitration claim in Washington, D.C., in May 2002 to
cause the Argentine government to pay Siemens AG damages in an amount
equivalent to incurred expenses and the total profits the company
would have earned from the DNI project had it not been terminated.
Siemens AG’s claim was brought pursuant toa treaty between Argentina
and Germany that protected the business investments of the parties
and companies organized under their laws. Exposure of the bribery
associated with the DNI project would have likely rendered the
arbitration claim futile because the contract would have been
procured through illegal corruption.

50. The Swiss arbitration settlement also preserved the
merits of Siemens AG’s arbitration claim in Washington, D.c. Of
critical importance to the conspirators was a provision in the
settlement agreement that expressly barred CARLOS SERGI and MIGUEL
CZYSCH, the defendants, and Co-conspirator #5 from “involv [ing]

themselves in [the Washington, D.C. arbitration] proceedings, either

- 30 -
Gase iitt-cr-O?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/ii Page oi of 40

directly or indirectly, or in any other manner influenc[ing] said
proceedings, even if only by passing on information.” Once the
settlement had been reached, Co-conspirator #4 sent an email to URIEL
SHAREF, the defendant, stating that a major objective of the defense
of the Swiss arbitration had been achieved: avoiding “contamination”
of Siemens AG’s arbitration in Washington, D.C. Co-conspirator #4
further explained that the settlement agreement would require
“absolute silence” in that arbitration proceeding.

51. For nearly three years, URIEL SHAREF and STEPHAN
SIGNER, the defendants, Co-conspirator #4, and other members of the
Crisis Management Team successfully kept evidence of bribery out of
the arbitration in Washington, D.C. The conspirators accomplished
this by filing a claim and supporting evidence, including witness
statements of ANDRES TRUPPEL and ULRICH BOCK, the defendants, which
contained material misrepresentations and omissions relating to the
DNI project’s origins, among other matters. As a result, in or about
August 2004, the arbitral tribunal determined that jurisdiction
existed to decide Siemens AG’s claim. In or about June 2005, however,
SHAREF and Co-conspirator #4 were tipped off by an executive at
Siemens Argentina that a high-ranking Argentine official had begun
talking about how the DNI project bidding process was corrupted. A
few months later, Argentina sought to raise a defense based on

corruption; it made reference in its filing to a pending Argentine

- 31 -
Gase tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2fe/ii Page S2 of 40

corruption investigation. SHAREF, SIGNER, Co-conspirator #4, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, caused Siemens AG’s attorney to
flatly deny the allegation. Ina letter filed in the arbitration,
the attorney wrote that “the insinuations of corruption intended by
Argentina against Siemens and SITS through the filing of these
documents are completely false.”

52. The arbitral tribunal sided with Siemens AG, and on
or about February 6, 2007, it awarded Siemens AG $217, 838,439 in loss
of investment, plus interest of 2.66% compounded annually. (On or
about August 12, 2009, Siemens AG personnel who were not members of
the conspiracy caused the company to waive its right to the award.)

Statutory Allegations

53. From in or about 1996 up to and including on or about
August 12, 2009, inthe Southern District of New York and elsewhere,
URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, willfully and
knowingly combined, conspired, confederated, and agreed together and
with each other to commit offenses against the United States, to wit,
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Title 15, United
States Code, Sections 78dd-1(a), 78dd-3(a), 78m(b) (2) (A),
78m(b) (2) (B), 78m(b) (5) and 78ff(a), and the wire fraud statute,

Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343.

- 32 -
Gase tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Document? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 33 of 40

54. It was a part and an object of the conspiracy that
URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, being officers,
directors, employees and agents of an issuer of securities registered
pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, willfully, that
is, with the intent to further the objects of the conspiracy, would
and did make use of the mails and means and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment,
promise to pay, and authorization of the payment of any money, offer,
gift, promise to give, and authorization of the giving of anything
of value, to a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that
all and a portion of such money and thing of value would be and had
been offered, given, and promised, directly and indirectly toa
foreign official, and a candidate for foreign political office, for
purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign
official in his or her official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign
official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty
of such official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and (iv)
inducing such foreign official to use his or her influence with a
foreign government and agencies and instrumentalities thereof to
affect and influence acts and decisions of such government and

agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist the defendants,

- 33 -
Gase tiit-or-O?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page S4 of 40

and others known and unknown, in obtaining and retaining business
for and with, and directing business to, Siemens, in violation of
Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(a) and 78ff(c) (2) (A).
55. It further was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK,
EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, while in the
territory of the United States, willfully, that is, with the intent
to further the objects of the conspiracy, and corruptly would and
did make use of the mails and means and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce and did any other act in furtherance of an offer,
payment, promise to pay, and authorization of the payment of any money,
offer, gift, promise to give, and authorization of the giving of
anything of value, to a foreign official, and to a person, while
knowing that all and a portion of such money and thing of value would
be and had been offered, given, and promised, directly and indirectly
to a foreign official, and a candidate for foreign political office,
for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and decisions of such foreign
official in his or her official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign
official to do and omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty
of such official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and (iv)
inducing such foreign official to use his or her influence witha

foreign government and agencies and instrumentalities thereof to

- 34 -
Gase iiti-cr-O?OS6-DLC Bocument? Filed T2/ie/ii Page 35 of 40

affect and influence acts and decisions of such government and
agencies and instrumentalities, in order to assist the defendants,
and others known and unknown, in obtaining and retaining business
for and with, and directing business to, Siemens, in violation of
Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-3(a) and
78dd-3(e) (2) (A).

56. It further was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK,
EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, would and did
knowingly and willfully, directly and indirectly, falsify and cause
to be falsified books, records, and accounts required to, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of Siemens AG, an issuer of securities
registered pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, in
violation of Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b) (2) (A),
78m(b) (5) and 78ff£(a), and Title 17, Code of Federal Regulations,
Section 240.13b2-1.

57. It further was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK,
EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, would and did

knowingly and willfully circumvent a system of internal accounting

- 35 -
Gase tiit-er-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page 36 of 40

controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that
transactions were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles and any other criteria applicable to such
statements, and to maintain accountability for assets at Siemens AG,
an issuer of securities registered pursuant to the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, in violation of Title 15, United States Code,
Sections 78m(b) (2) (B), 78m(b) (5) and 78ff (a).

58. It further was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK,
EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, having devised
and intended to devise a scheme and artifice to defraud, and for
obtaining money and property by means of false and fraudulent
pretenses, representations, and promises, would and did willfully
and knowingly transmit and cause to be transmitted by means of wire
communication in interstate and foreign commerce, writings, signs,
signals, and pictures for the purpose of executing such scheme and
artifice, to wit, a scheme to defraud that is more fully described
in Count Three, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section

1343.

- 36 -
Gase tiit-or-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2f_e/ii Page SY of 40

Overt Acts
59. In furtherance of said conspiracy and to effect the
illegal objectives thereof, URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES
TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS
SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, and co-conspirators known and
unknown, committed the following overt acts, among others, in the
Southern District of New York and elsewhere:

a. In or about 1998, BOCK transported
approximately $10 million in cash from Germany to Switzerland for
deposit into Swiss bank accounts.

b. On or about September 4, 1998, in Argentina and
Germany, BOCK, REICHERT, Co-conspirator #3, and co-conspirators
known and unknown, caused Siemens to wire transfer approximately
1,850,000 deutschmarks (approximately $1 million) to a bank account
held in Zurich, Switzerland by Masters Overseas Corporation, a
Conduit Entity controlled by SERGI and other intermediaries.

Cc. On or about December 2, 1998, in Miami, Florida,
a bank account was opened in the name of Rodmarton Ltd., listing
Co-conspirator #6 as a director of that Conduit Entity.

d. On or about December 28, 1998, in Argentina and
Germany, BOCK, REICHERT, and Co-conspirator #3 caused SBS to wire

transfer approximately $10 million to a bank account held in

- 37 -
Gase tiit-or-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2fe/ii Page 38 of 40

Switzerland by Air Traffic Control Corporation, a Conduit Entity
controlled by SERGI and other intermediaries.

e. On or about September 15, 1999, in Argentina and
Germany, TRUPPEL, BOCK, REICHERT, and Co-conspirator #3 caused SBS
to wire transfer approximately $3,552,500 to a bank account held in
Manhattan, New York by Company #1, a foreign exchange firm with which
the same defendants had caused SBS to enter into a fictitious hedging
contract, dated on or about January 13, 1999.

f. On or about October 15, 1999, in Argentina and
Germany, TRUPPEL, BOCK, REICHERT, and Co-conspirator #3 caused SBS
to wire transfer approximately $3,864,500 to a bank account held in
Manhattan, New York by Company #1.

g. On or about October 28, 1999, in Germany, BOCK
and REICHERT authorized SBS to pay approximately $820,000 to Pepcon
Corporation S.A., $890,000 to Mirror Development Inc., and $915,000
to Finli Advisors Group Inc., Conduit Entities affiliated with
Argentine Officials A, B, and C, respectively.

h. On or about February 15, 2000, in Miami, Florida,
a bank account was opened in the name of Silverlinks Company Ltd.,
listing CZYSCH as an authorized signatory and Co-conspirator #6 as
the president and sole director of that Conduit Entity.

i. On or about November 2, 2000, payment demands

were faxed to REICHERT, in Germany, froma telephone service business,

- 38 -
Gase tiit-cr-OiOS6-DLC Bocument? Filed l2fe/ii Page 39 of 40

located in a strip mall in Miami, Florida, on behalf of Conduit
Entities Pepcon Corporation S.A. (at 12:53 p.m.), Finli Advisors
Group Inc. (at 12:54 p.m.), Mirror Development Inc. (at 12:55 p.m.),
and LaGironde Investments Inc. (at 12:55 p.m.).

j- In or about November and December 2000, in
Germany and Argentina, TRUPPEL, BOCK, REICHERT, SERGI, CZYSCH, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, met to discuss outstanding bribe
obligations to Argentine Officials, and consolidating certain bribe
obligations through a $27 million “white contract” between SBS and
Mfast.

k, On or about January 3, 2001, in Germany and
Switzerland, a contract between SBS and Mfast was executed as a result
of negotiations between BOCK, REICHERT, CZYSCH, and co-conspirators
unknown and unknown.

1. On or about March 15, 2001, in Argentina and
Germany, TRUPPEL, REICHERT, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
caused SITS to enter into a $1 million consultancy contract with
Co-conspirator #2, intending that proceeds of the contract be used
to pay bribes to Argentine Official H.

m. On or about July 6, 2001, in Miami, Florida,
TRUPPEL, BOCK, SERGI, CZYSCH, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
met to discuss a settlement of the outstanding bribe payment

obligations to the Argentine Officials.

- 39 -
Gase iiti-cr-f?OS6-DLC Document? Filed T2/ie/ii Page 40 of 40

n. On or about May 21, 2002, in Germany, Argentina,
and Washington, D.C., SHAREF, STEFFEN, TRUPPEL, SIGNER,
Co-conspirator #4, and co-conspirators known and unknown, caused
Siemens AG to file an arbitration claim in Washington, D.C. against
the Republic of Argentina, seeking to recover investment and lost
profits in connection with the DNI project.

oO. On or about May 23, 2002, STEFFEN sent a
facsimile to TRUPPEL which listed bribe obligations to the Argentine
Officials that STEFFEN had received from SERGI and Argentine Official
Cc.

p. On or about May 24, 2002, in Germany, SHAREF had
a telephone conversation with an SBS executive, after which the
executive authorized up to $10 million in bribe payments in
connection with the DNI project.

q. On or about June 26, 2002, in Germany, TRUPPEL,
SIGNER, BOCK, and co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS to
enter into a contract with Meder Holding Corporation S.A, which was
backdated to October 3, 2000.

r. On or about July 22, 2002, in Argentina and
Germany, SHAREF, TRUPPEL, BOCK, SIGNER, and co-conspirators known
and unknown, caused SBS to wire transfer approximately $5,213,561
to a bank account in Manhattan, New York, for further credit toa

bank account held in Uruguay by Meder Holding Corporation S.A., based

- 40 -
Case iiii-erOiOS6-O0C Document i-1 Filed 12/2/11 Page i of 23

on the backdated contract referred to in the preceding Overt Act,
and five invoices that TRUPPEL had faxed to SIGNER on or about May
9, 2002.

Ss. On or about August 13, 2002, in Uruguay, TRUPPEL
caused Meder Holding Corporation §.A. to transfer $3,090,000 through
a bank account in Manhattan, New York that was associated with Milmar
S.A., a Conduit Entity controlled by SERGI.

t. On or about December 27, 2002, in Argentina,
SERGI sent a letter to SHAREF, requesting a meeting with SHAREF on
or before January 15, 2003, and warning of “damage to the image and
good reputation” of Siemens if they did not come up with a “proper
solution.”

u. On or about January 15, 2003, SHAREF traveled
from Germany to Manhattan, New York, intending to meet with SERGI
and TRUPPEL to discuss bribe payment obligations to the Argentine
Officials.

Vv. On or about January 24, 2003, in Germany, SHAREF
met with STEFFEN and TRUPPEL to discuss the results of a meeting
between SHAREF and SERGI.

w. On or about February 10, 2003, in Argentina,
SERGI sent a letter to TRUPPEL and STEFFEN, which threatened to expose
Siemens’s “questionable procedures” in procuring the contract for

the DNI project, and warned that such exposure would “doubtlessly

- 41 -
generate a problem at public sector level” and “make a positive
resolution of the claim by Siemens filed in Washington against the
Argentine Government impossible, and result in a loss for the
Company.”

x. On or about February 26, 2003, in Germany, BOCK
and TRUPPEL, and co-conspirators known and unknown, prepared false
and fraudulent witness statements and caused the statements to be
sent to the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C.

y. In or about March 2003, in Germany, SHAREF
requested a senior executive of Siemens PTD to find a way to transfer
approximately €12 million to South America.

Zz. On or about April 19, 2003, in Argentina and
Germany, SHAREF and TRUPPEL, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
caused Company #2 to wire transfer $3,500,000 to a bank account held
in the Bahamas by Conduit Entity Chatarella Investors Ltd.

aa. On or about April 22, 2003, in Argentina and
Germany, SHAREF and TRUPPEL, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
caused Company #2 to send wire transfers of $1,100,000 and $1,807,000
to a bank account held in the Bahamas by Chatarella Investors Ltd.

bb. On or about April 28, 2003, in Argentina and
Germany, SHAREF and TRUPPEL, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
caused Company #2 to wire transfer $593,000 to a bank account held

in the Bahamas by Chatarella Investors Ltd.

- 42 -
Gase tiit-or-OiO056-O0C Document i-f Fed 1292/91 Page Sof 23

ce. On or about July 6, 2003, in Argentina and
Germany, SHAREF and TRUPPEL, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
caused Company #2 to wire transfer $600,000 to a bank account held
in the Bahamas by Conduit Entity Rockney Consultants Ltd.

dd. On or about July 11, 2003, in Argentina and
Germany, SHAREF and TRUPPEL, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
caused Company #2 to wire transfer $1,500,000 to a bank account held
in the Bahamas by Rockney Consultants Ltd.

ee. On or about July 13, 2003, in Argentina and
Germany, SHAREF and TRUPPEL, and co-conspirators known and unknown,
caused Company #2 to wire transfer $400,000 to a bank account held
in the Bahamas by Rockney Consultants Ltd.

ff. In or about January 2004, in Germany, SIGNER
requested that an SBS manager provide back-dated authorization for
payments totaling $4.7 million to Conduit Entities Rodmarton Ltd.,
Linfarm Inc. S.A., Silverlinks Company Ltd., and Consultora Neelrey

S.A.

gg. On or about January 28, 2004, in Germany and
Argentina, SHAREF, TRUPPEL, STEFFEN, SIGNER, SERGI, CZYSCH, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS to send a wire transfer
of approximately $1,244,120 to a bank account held in Miami, Florida

by Rodmarton Ltd.

- 43 -
Case iiii-erOiOS6-O0C Document ?-1 Filed 12/2/11 Page 4of 23

hh. On or about January 29, 2004, in Germany and
Argentina, SHAREF, TRUPPEL, STEFFEN, SIGNER, SERGI, CZYSCH, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS to send a wire transfer
of approximately $1,116,230 to a bank account held in Uruguay by
Linfarm Inc. S.A.

ii. On or about February 2, 2004, in Germany and
Argentina, SHAREF, TRUPPEL, STEFFEN, SIGNER, SERGI, CZYSCH, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS to wire transfer
approximately $1,098,900 to a bank account held in Uruguay by
Consultora Neelrey S.A.

jj. On or about February 3, 2004, in Germany and
Argentina, SHAREF, TRUPPEL, STEFFEN, SIGNER, SERGI, CZYSCH, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS to wire transfer
approximately $1,240,750 to a bank account held in Miami, Florida,
by Silverlinks Company Ltd.

kk. On or about July 8, 2004, in Argentina, TRUPPEL
told STEFFEN by email that he had agreed to provide testimony on
SERGI’s behalf in the impending Mfast arbitration, adding that
TRUPPEL would testify that he had meetings with SHAREF at which SHAREF
asked TRUPPEL and STEFFEN to “find a solution to make the payments”
and that certain payments were made, but not the “full agreed amount.”

ll. On or about July 12, 2004, in Germany, STEFFEN

forwarded the email referred to in the preceding Overt Act to SHAREF,

- 44 -
who in turn forwarded it to Co-conspirator #4, stating that he (SHAREF)
could not “understand the email from Mr. Truppel to Mr. Steffen.”

mm. On or about July 14, 2004, in Germany,
Co-conspirator #4 told another Siemens attorney that SHAREF was
“upset” by TRUPPEL’s July 8 email, but wanted to stay out of it, except
for instructing Co-conspirator #4 to make sure STEFFEN and TRUPPEL
are “muzzled.”

mn. On or about March 15, 2005, in Zurich,
Switzerland, SERGI, CZYSCH, Co-conspirator #5, and Co-conspirator
#6 caused Mfast to file notice of an international arbitration
against SBS.

oo. On or about September 23, 2005, in Germany,
SHAREF, SIGNER, Co-conspirator #4, and co-conspirators known and
unknown, caused a facsimile to be sent from Argentina to the arbitral
tribunal in Washington, D.C., which stated that the “insinuations
of corruption” raised by Argentina are “completely false.”

pp. On or about December 21, 2005, in Germany,
SHAREF, SIGNER, Co-conspirator #4, and co-conspirators known and
unknown, caused a facsimile to be sent from Argentina to the arbitral
tribunal in Washington, D.C., which stated that Argentina’s
‘references to payments made by SITS to Argentine public officials

are false and inappropriate.”

- 45 -
Gase tiit-or-OiO056-O0C Document i-f Fed 1292/91 Page 6 of 23

qq. In or about November 2006, SHAREF, SIGNER,
Co-conspirator #4, and co-conspirators known and unknown, caused SBS
to settle Mfast’s claim for approximately $8.8 million, including
in the settlement agreement a provision expressly barring SERGI,
CZYSCH and Co-conspirator #5 from “involv[ing] themselves in [the
Washington, D.C. arbitration] proceedings, either directly or
indirectly, or in any other manner influenc[ing] said proceedings,
even if only by passing on information.”

rr. Onor about January 16, 2007, inGermany, SHAREF,
TRUPPEL, STEFFEN, BOCK, REICHERT, SIGNER, SERGI, CZYSCH,
Co-conspirator #4, and co-conspirators known and unknown, caused
Siemens to wire transfer $8.8 million to a bank account in Zurich,
Switzerland as a settlement of the arbitration claim by Mfast.

ss. Onor about January 17, 2007, in Uruguay, SERGI
received approximately $4 million that had been transferred from
Switzerland, to and through a bank account in Manhattan, New York,
to an investment account held by Conduit Entity Milmar Ltd.

tt. On or about January 17, 2007, in Uruguay, SERGI
received approximately $4 million that had been transferred from
Switzerland to and through a bank account in Manhattan, New York,
to an investment account held by Conduit Entity Tidwell Investments

S.A.

- 46 -
Gase tit-or-OiO056-O0C Document i-f Fled 1292/91 Page 7 of 23

uu. On or about February 2, 2007, in Germany, BOCK
wrote an email to SHAREF and SIGNER in which he complained about not
receiving “consulting payments” that Siemens had promised him in
connection with the then-ongoing arbitrations in Washington, D.C.
and Zurich, Switzerland; in justifying prompt payment, BOCK
explained, “I have arranged my witness statements for the [Washington,
D.C. and Mfast] arbitration proceedings in such a way that Siemens
is protected from damage "7

vv. On or about May 9, 2007, in Miami, Florida, a
bank account held by a company associated with TRUPPEL received a
transfer of approximately $100,000 from a Uruguay investment account
held by Milmar Ltd. that was controlled by SERGI.

ww. On or about July 23, 2007, in Miami, Florida,
a bank account held by a company associated with TRUPPEL received
a transfer of approximately $100,000 from a Uruguay investment
account held by Tidwell Investments S.A. that was controlled by
SERGI.

xx. On or about November 2, 2007, inMiami, Florida,
a bank account held by a company associated with TRUPPEL received
a transfer of approximately $100,000 from a Uruguay investment
account held by Tidwell Investments S.A. that was controlled by
SERGI.

(Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.)

- 47 -
Case iiii-erOiOS6-O0C Document i-1 Filed 12/2/11 Page 8 of 23

COUNT TWO
(Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering)

The Grand Jury further charges:

60. Paragraphs 1 through 20 and 22 through 52 of this
Indictment are repeated and realleged and incorporated by reference
as though fully set forth herein.

61. From in or about 1996 up to and including in or about
November 2007, in the Southern District of New York and elsewhere,
URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, willfully and
knowingly combined, conspired, confederated, and agreed together and
with each other to violate Title 18, United States Code, Sections
1956 and 1957.

62. It was a part and an object of the conspiracy that
URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, knowingly would
and did conduct a financial transaction affecting interstate
commerce and foreign commerce, which financial transaction involved
the proceeds of specified unlawful activity, that is, a felony
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, codified at Title
15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1, et seq., knowing that the

financial transaction was designed in whole and in part to conceal
- 48 -
and disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, and control
of the proceeds of said specified unlawful activity, and that while
conducting such financial transaction, knew that the property
involved in the financial transaction represented the proceeds of
some form of unlawful activity, in violation of Title 18, United
States Code, Section 1956(a) (1) (B) (i).

63. It further was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK,
EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, knowingly would
and did transmit and transfer a monetary instrument and funds from
a place in the United States to and through a place outside the United
States and to a place in the United States from and through a place
outside the United States with the intent to promote the carrying
on of specified unlawful activity, to wit, a felony violation of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, codified at Title 15, United States
Code, Section 78dd-1, et seq., in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 1956 (a) (2) (A).

64. It further was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK,
EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, unlawfully and

knowingly would and did transmit and transfer a monetary instrument

-~ 49 -
Case Titi-or€?056-DLCG Bocumentd-1 Filed T2921 Rage 10 of 23

and funds involving the proceeds of specified unlawful activity, that
is, a felony violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, codified
at Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1, et seg., froma place
in the United States to and through a place outside the United States
and to a place in the United States from and through a place outside
the United States knowing that the monetary instrument and funds
involved in the transmission and transfer represented the proceeds
of some form of unlawful activity and knowing that such transmission
and transfer was designed in whole and in part to conceal and disguise
the nature, location, source, ownership, and control of the proceeds
of said specified unlawful activity, in violation of Title 18, United
States Code, Section 1956 (a) (2) (B) (i).

65. It further was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK,
EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, knowingly would
and did engage in a monetary transaction by, through, and toa
financial institution, affecting interstate and foreign commerce,
in criminally derived property of a value greater than $10,000 and
having been derived from a specified unlawful activity, that is, a
felony violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, codified at
Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1, et seq., in violation

of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1957(a).

- 50 -
 

rs 4.4 -
noe 4:
WeGSG PP P-Oye

7)
24
oo

Means and Methods of the Conspiracy
66. Among the means and methods used by URIEL SHAREF,
HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT,
STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, and
co-conspirators known and unknown, to achieve the objects of the
conspiracy were those set forth in Count One, paragraph 21, which
are repeated and realleged and incorporated by reference as though
fully set forth herein.
Overt Acts
67. In furtherance of said conspiracy and to effect the

illegal objectives thereof, URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES
TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS
SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, and co-conspirators known and
unknown, committed the following overt acts, among others, in the
Southern District of New York and elsewhere:

a. On or about September 15, 1999, TRUPPEL, BOCK,
REICHERT, and Co-conspirator #3 caused funds intended to be used in
whole and in part to pay bribes, in the approximate amount of
$3,552,500, to be transmitted and transferred from a bank account
held by Siemens at a place outside the United States to and through
a bank account held by Company #1 in Manhattan, New York.

b. On or about October 15, 1999, TRUPPEL, BOCK,

REICHERT, and Co-conspirator #3 caused funds intended to be used in

- 51 -
rs 4oae ,
noe 4: ay
LeaSe pir )-oy-

 

oS
wets

whole and in part to pay bribes, in the approximate amount of
$3,864,500, to be transmitted and transferred from a bank account
held by Siemens at a place outside the United States to and through
a bank account held by Company #1 in Manhattan, New York.

om On or about July 22, 2002, SHAREF, TRUPPEL, BOCK,
and SIGNER caused funds intended to be used in whole and in part to
pay bribes, in the approximate amount of $5,213,561, to be
transmitted and transferred from a bank account held by Siemens at
a place outside the United States to and through a bank account
associated with Meder Holding Corporation S.A. in Manhattan, New York,
and from that bank account to and through a bank account held by Meder
Holding Corporation S.A. in Uruguay, and thereafter:

i. on or about August 13, 2002, caused funds
intended to be used in whole and in part to pay bribes, in the
approximate amount of $3,090,000, to be transmitted and transferred
from a bank account held by Meder Holding Corporation S.A. in Uruguay
to and through a bank account associated with Milmar Ltd. in Manhattan,
New York, and from that bank account to and through a bank account
held by Milmar Ltd. in Uruguay.

da. On or about January 28, 2004, SHAREF, TRUPPEL,
STEFFEN, SIGNER, SERGI, CZYSCH, Co-conspirator #5, and
Co-conspirator #6 caused funds intended to be used in whole and in

part to pay bribes, in the approximate amount of $1,244,120, to be

- 52 -
Case Tti-or0?056-DLCG Bocumentd-1 Filed T2421 Rage 13 of 23

transmitted and transferred from a bank account held by Siemens at
a place outside the United States to and through a bank account held
by Rodmarton Ltd. in Miami, Florida, and thereafter:

i. on or about May 10, 2004, caused funds
intended to be used in whole and in part to pay bribes, in the
approximate amount of $584,000, to be transmitted and transferred
from a bank account held by Rodmarton Ltd. in Miami, Florida to and
through a bank account held in Uruguay by Tidwell Investments S.A.

e. On or about January 16, 2007, SHAREF, TRUPPEL,
STEFFEN, BOCK, REICHERT, SIGNER, SERGI, CZYSCH, Co-conspirator #4,
Co-conspirator #5, and Co-conspirator #6 caused funds intended to
be used in whole and in part to pay bribes, in the approximate amount
of $8.8 million, to be transmitted and transferred froma bank account
held by Siemens at a place outside the United States to and through
a bank account held by an attorney for Mfast Consulting AG in

Switzerland, and thereafter:

i. on or about January 17, 2007, caused funds
intended to be used in whole and in part to pay bribes, in the
approximate amount of $4 million, to be transmitted and transferred
from a bank account held by an attorney for Mfast Consulting AG in
Switzerland to and through a bank account associated with Tidwell

Investments S.A. in Manhattan, New York, and from that bank account

- 53 -
 

rs 4oae ,
noe 4: ay
LeaSe pir )-oy-

oS
wets

to and through an investment account held by Tidwell Investments S.A.
in Uruguay.

£. On or about May 9, 2007, in Miami, Florida, a
bank account held by a company associated with TRUPPEL received a
transfer of approximately $100,000 from a Uruguay investment account
held by Milmar Ltd. that was controlled by SERGI.

g. On or about July 23, 2007, in Miami, Florida,
a bank account held by a company associated with TRUPPEL received
a transfer of approximately $100,000 from a Uruguay investment
account held by Tidwell Investments S.A. that was controlled by
SERGI.

h. On or about November 2, 2007, in Miami, Florida,
a bank account held by a company associated with TRUPPEL received
a transfer of approximately $100,000 from a Uruguay investment
account held by Tidwell Investments S.A. that was controlled by
SERGI.

(Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956 (h).)

COUNT THREE
(Wire Fraud)

The Grand Jury further charges:
68. Paragraphs 1 through 20 and 22 through 52 of this
Indictment are repeated and realleged and incorporated by reference

as though fully set forth herein.

- 54 -
69. From in or about June 2001 up to and including on or
about August 12, 2009, in the Southern District of New York and
elsewhere, URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH
BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH,
the defendants, and co-conspirators known and unknown, having
devised and intended to devise a scheme and artifice to defraud, and
for obtaining money and property by means of false and fraudulent
pretenses, representations, and promises, willfully, and knowingly
transmitted and caused to be transmitted by means of wire
communication in interstate and foreign commerce, writings, signs,
signals, and pictures for the purpose of executing such scheme and
artifice, to wit, SHAREF, STEFFEN, TRUPPEL, BOCK, REICHERT, SIGNER,
SERGI, and CZYSCH engaged in a scheme to defraud the Argentine
government of money by means of an arbitration claim that was premised
on and supported by materially false representations and omissions.

70. %It was part of the scheme and artifice that URIEL
SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, the defendants, and others known and
unknown, knowing that an arbitration claim brought by Siemens AG in
Washington, D.C. against the Republic of Argentina for breach of
treaty obligations in connection with the DNI project would fail if
it were revealed in the arbitration that the contract for the DNI

project was procured in a corrupt manner, caused Siemens AG to file

- 55 -
Case Titi-or0?056-DLCG Bocumentd-1 Filed T2421 Rage 16 of 23

such an arbitration claim, knowing that the claim falsely represented
that the contract for the DNI project was procured in a non-corrupt
manner and omitted that, in truth and fact, the contract for the DNI
project was procured in a corrupt manner.

71. j%.It further was a part of the scheme and artifice that
URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, the defendants, and others known and
unknown, knowing that an arbitration claim brought by Siemens AG in
Washington, D.C. against the Republic of Argentina for breach of
treaty obligations in connection with the DNI project would fail if
it were revealed in the arbitration that the contract for the DNI
project was procured in a corrupt manner, caused Siemens AG to make
additional filings in support of such an arbitration claim, including
testimonial witness statements of TRUPPEL and BOCK, knowing that said
filings falsely represented that the contract for the DNI project
was procured in a non-corrupt manner and omitted that, in truth and
fact, the contract for the DNI project was procured in a corrupt
manner.

72. j(%It further was a part of the scheme and artifice that
URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and others known and unknown, knowing that an arbitration

claim brought by Siemens AG in Washington, D.C. against the Republic

~ 56 -
Case Tti-or0?056-DLCG Bocumentd-1 Filed T2421 Rage 17 of 23

of Argentina for breach of treaty obligations in connection with the
DNI project would fail if it were revealed in the arbitration that
the contract for the DNI project was procured in a corrupt manner,
agreed that SERGI, CZYSCH, and Co-conspirator #5 would not reveal
in such an arbitration that the contract for the DNI project was
procured ina corrupt manner, and caused Siemens to pay money to SERGI,
CZYSCH, Co-conspirator #5, and ultimately the Argentine Officials,
for that purpose, including by wire transfers to and through bank
accounts in Manhattan, New York.

73. It further was a part of the scheme and artifice that
URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD
REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, MIGUEL CZYSCH, the
defendants, and others known and unknown, caused to be transmitted
by means of wire communication in interstate and foreign commerce,
the following writings, signs, signals, and pictures among others:

a. On or about May 21, 2002, a facsimile from
Argentina to the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. on behalf of
Siemens AG, containing a “Request for Arbitration” against the
Government of Argentina.
b. On or about September 23, 2005, a facsimile from

Argentina to the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. on behalf of
Siemens AG, stating that the “insinuations of corruption” raised by

the Government of Argentina are “completely false.”

~ 57 -
Case Tti-or0?056-DLCG Bocumentd-1 Filed T2421 Rage 18 of 23

c. On or about October 4, 2005, a facsimile from
the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. to counsel for the
respective parties in Argentina, effectively denying Argentina's
request to raise corruption as a defense to the arbitration claim.

d. On or about October 7, 2005, a facsimile and
electronic mail from the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. to
counsel for the respective parties in Argentina, effectively denying
Argentina's request for reconsideration of the decision communicated
in the October 4, 2005 facsimile, referred to above.

e. On or about December 21, 2005, a facsimile from
Argentina to the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. on behalf of
Siemens AG, stating that the Government of Argentina’s “references
to payments made by SITS to Argentine public officials are false and
inappropriate.”

£. On or about February 17, 2006, a facsimile from
Argentina to the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. on behalf of
Siemens AG, stating that resort to “any bad practice... has clearly

not been the Siemens case.”

g. On or about March 9, 2006, a facsimile from
Argentina to the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. on behalf of
Siemens AG, stating that “misleading allegations” of “bad practices”

have been “fully discredited by [Siemens] in its prior submissions.”

- 5B -
Case Titi-or0?056-DLCG BDocumentd-1 Filed T2412 41 Fage 19 of 23

h. On or about February 6, 2007, a facsimile and
electronic mail from the arbitral tribunal in Washington, D.C. to
counsel for the respective parties in Argentina, stating that the
Government of Argentina shall pay Siemens AG compensation in the
amount of $208,440,540 on account of Siemens’s investment in the DNI
project, $9,178,000 on account of consequential damages, and
$219,899 on account of unpaid bills for services provided by SITS.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1343 and 2.)
FORFEITURE ALLEGATIONS AS TO COUNTS ONE AND THREE

74. As the result of committing the criminal conspiracy
offense in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371,
Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(a), 78dd-3(a),
78m(b) (2) (A) -(B), 78m(b) (5), and 78ff£(a), and Title 18, United
States Code, Sections 1343 & 2, alleged in Count One of this
Indictment, URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH
BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, and MIGUEL
CZYSCH, the defendants, shall forfeit to the United States, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. § 981(a) (1) (C) and 28 U.S.C. § 2461, all property, real
and personal, that constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable
to the commission of the offense.

75. As a result of committing the wire fraud offense in
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1343 and 2,

alleged in Count Three of this Indictment, URIEL SHAREF, HERBERT

- 59 -
Case Tti-or0?056-DLCG Bocumentd-1 Filed T2421 Rage 20 of 23

STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT, STEPHAN
SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, and MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants, shall
forfeit to the United States, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 981(a) (1) (C)
and 28 U.S.C. § 2461, all property, real and personal, that
constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to the commission

of the offense.

Substitute Asset Provision

 

76. If any of the above-described forfeitable property,
as a result of any act or omission of the defendants:
(1) cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;

(2) has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with,
a third person;

(3) has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the Court;
(4) has been substantially diminished in value; or

(S) has been commingled with other property which cannot
be subdivided without difficulty;

it is the intent of the United States, pursuant to 21U.S.C. § 853(p),
to seek forfeiture of any other property of said defendants up to
the value of the above forfeitable property.
(Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-l(a), 78dd-3(a),
78m(b) (2) (A), 78m(b) (2) (B), 78m(b) (5) & 78f£(a);
Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371, 981, 1343 & 2;

Title 21, United States Code, Section 853; and
Title 28, United States Code, Section 2461.)

- 60 -
Case Titi-or0?056-DLCG BDocumentd-1 Filed T2421 Rage 21 of 23

FORFEITURE ALLEGATIONS AS TO COUNT TWO

77. As the result of committing the money laundering
offenses in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections
1956(h), 1956(a) (1) (B) (i), 1956(a) (2) (A), 1956(a) (2) (B) (i), and
1957(a) , alleged in Count Two of this Indictment, URIEL SHAREF,
HERBERT STEFFEN, ANDRES TRUPPEL, ULRICH BOCK, EBERHARD REICHERT,
STEPHAN SIGNER, CARLOS SERGI, and MIGUEL CZYSCH, the defendants,
shall forfeit to the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 982, all
property, real and personal, involved in the money laundering
offenses and all property traceable to such property.

Substitute Asset Provision

78. %If any of the above-described forfeitable property,
as a result of any act or omission of the defendants:

(1) cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;

(2) has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with,
a third person;

(3) has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the Court;
(4) has been substantially diminished in value; or

(5) has been commingled with other property which cannot
be subdivided without difficulty;

- 61 -
Case Titi-or€?056-DLCG Bocumentd-1 Filed T2421 Rage 22 of 23

it is the intent of the United States, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 982(b),
to seek forfeiture of any other property of said defendants up to
the value of the above forfeitable property.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 982, 1956, and 1957.)

(Cath ews deck But ‘Dhovoxo-

FOREPERSON / PREET BHARARA
United States Attorney

 

 

 

A.\ BREUER“ {
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Justice
Criminal Division

- 62 -
Case Titi-or0?056-DLCG Bocumenid-1 Filed T2241 FPage 23 of 23
