cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Files Lawsuit Against Driver Loan, LLC And
Its CEO

NOV 05, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) today filed a
lawsuit against Driver Loan, LLC, and its Chief Executive Officer, Angelo Jose Sarjeant, for
allegedly engaging in deceptive acts or practices in taking deposits from and offering credit
to consumers. Driver Loan, based in Doral, Florida, offers short-term, high-interest loans to
consumers funded by deposits made by other consumers. The Bureau alleges that Driver
Loan and Sarjeant violated the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA) by
misrepresenting the risks associated with the deposit product it offered to consumers and
by misrepresenting the annual percentage rate (APR) for extensions of credit it offered to
other consumers.

The Bureau’s complaint, filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida, alleges that since 2017, Driver Loan purports to have offered short-term, high-
interest personal loans totaling over $30 million, typically to drivers who work with ride-
share companies. The loans range from $100 to $500 each and are repayable in 15 daily
installments. The Bureau alleges that Driver Loan deceptively markets its loans as having an
APR of 440% when the actual APRs are about 975%.

In 2020, Driver Loan began taking deposits from consumers to fund the loans it makes.
Driver Loan claims to guarantee a 15% annual percentage yield on consumers’ deposits. It
also claims to guarantee that consumers’ deposits are held at FDIC-insured institutions,
which would protect against the loss of insured deposits. Driver Loan’s website also
represents that a new consumer deposits funds with the company about every minute. The
Bureau alleges that Driver Loan’s representations are false, as many consumers’ funds were
not held in FDIC-insured accounts, the rate of return was not “guaranteed,” and other
consumers were not rushing to deposit their funds with Driver Loan. The Bureau also
alleges that most deposited funds are lent to borrowers at rates that violate Florida’s
criminal-usury law, rendering the loans uncollectable and creating substantial risk that
Driver Loan would not be able to collect delinquent loans or meet its obligations to
consumers who sought to withdraw their deposited funds.

The Bureau seeks an injunction against Driver Loan and Sarjeant to stop their alleged
unlawful conduct, as well as damages, redress to consumers, disgorgement of ill-gotten
gains, and the imposition of civil money penalties.

The Bureau's complaint is not a finding or ruling that Driver Loan, LLC or Angelo Jose
Sarjeant has violated the law.

A copy of the complaint is available here:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_driver-loan-llc-angelo-jose-
sarjeant_complaint_2020-11.pdf lM (cfob.gov/documents/9282/cfpb_driver-loan-llc-angelo-
jose-sarjeant_complaint_2020-11.pdf)

 

 

tnt

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION
If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
