2020-BCFP-0015 Document1 Filed 09/14/2020 Page 1 of 52

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP- 0015

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

ClearPath Lending, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of ClearPath Lending, Inc. (ClearPath
or Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24 of
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in
Lending Act (TILA), 15 U.S.C. $$ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts
and Practices—Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. §
1014.3; and §§ 1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12

U.S.C. 88 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order.
ARSA Pr Anar wy a ett APA A EON mo em
SHO REE ELOOTS Macument 7 Biiee OO/9 Af Oeg Dana 2 af &e
ae We Pe Pur Bt Ra Ra PE P RGA Leah Phe es fn Nat PO CAMS MSE 1m

Overview
ClearPath is a mortgage broker and lender that offers and provides
mortgages guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA). Occasionally, it has acted as the creditor, providing loans itself; in
other situations, it has acted as a broker, arranging for another creditor to
provide loans.
ClearPath advertises these mortgage products to consumers through direct-
mail advertising campaigns targeted primarily at United States military
servicemembers and veterans.
ClearPath has sent consumers millions of advertisements that violate federal
law because of misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop ClearPath from distributing
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.

II.
Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the

CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12

2
AAAS PAPE FR ~~ C4 were NPT AMMAN my ~ come
MAREE AAAS Macimant 4 Ribas AG AlAs Dew SQ ef AD
ee bk de PSR Sm ered PY ry goat Salt aber ay : PT epee PT ype ft ea i : ¥ ett feo y bE tf
She ad BP et NE Pe 8 Ras? & Age eke hd PoE Lea Pe ew Bo Gtk af Kee &

U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as
amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5538.

Il.
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 27, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent
has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under §§
1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

IV.
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertising Compliance Official” means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 107. The Advertising Compliance

Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
SAM Deere Anar -
Pete BSR RR LHOET Ss i

rd a .
oe We AP Je

chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,
chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be in a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears; presented before the consumer incurs any
financial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exemplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contained in the advertisement as sent, posted,

published, or disseminated to a consumer.
10.

11.

FAA RPP OA am, _ co wees PAP IA ABRAM ry. ~~ go ey
ie 2h Reb m Aaa g Phaciipaant 1 be epee Aha fit fy oe} oy Ma A yt AS
ee bk de PSR Sm ered PY ry goat Salt aber ay : Riess dy ‘Pn eed i Stel. ‘

She ad BP et NE Pe 8 Bat Ae Re ed PoREA ad Lea ob ees fn St PO CAMS af ASE aie

f. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent
Order.

g. “Relevant Period” includes from July 1, 2017, to the Effective Date.

h. “Respondent” means ClearPath Lending, Inc., and its successors and
assigns.

V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

ClearPath is a California corporation with its principal place of business in
Irvine, California.

ClearPath is licensed as a mortgage broker or lender in about 22 states.
ClearPath is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(19),
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.F.R. §
1014.2, because it is a corporation.

During the Relevant Period, ClearPath has been a “covered person” under
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages in

offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer

5
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

AAA Peer MAA
POOL RCE LOOT
a Be a Bat Nat :

financial product[s] or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6),
(15)(A)Q@).

During the Relevant Period, ClearPath has been subject to the MAP Rule
because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58.
12 C.F.R. § 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 548114).

ClearPath provides “mortgage credit product|[s],” as that term is defined in
the MAP Rule. 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

ClearPath’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
in 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, ClearPath has offered ‘“‘closed-end credit” in the
form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10) & (11).

ClearPath’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end
credit,” as that term is defined in Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10).
ClearPath offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed by

the VA.
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

AAA Rr mA we PO ee came amet od Ph APE A EPA PV OP OE
SHO REE ELOOTS Macument 7 Biiee OO/9 Af Oeg Dane - af &e
ae We Pe Pur Bt Ra Ra PE P RGA Leah Phe es fn Nat POCA FASE 1m

ClearPath’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to veterans and servicemembers.
Since July 2017, ClearPath has mailed millions of mortgage advertisements
to veterans and servicemembers in at least 22 states.

Hundreds of thousands of consumers have received at least one of
ClearPath’s direct-mail advertisements, and thousands of consumers have

obtained mortgages through ClearPath.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations

Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, ClearPath was responsible for both the content
of, and the dissemination of, numerous mortgage advertisements during the
Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements,
as described below.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate
Representations About Cost and Other Credit Terms

Most of ClearPath’s mortgage advertisements stated specific credit terms,
such as an interest rate, annual percentage rate (APR), a payment amount, or

closing costs.
24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

AAARN PRs AAA PL ee cm ek mt AA APM AN Po
SHO REE ELOOTS Macument 7 Biiee OO/9 Af Oeg Dana & af &e
ae We Pe Pur Bt Ra Ra PE P RGA Leah Phe es fn Nat Po CAMS LP OASE 1m

By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, ClearPath represented,
expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a mortgage with those
credit terms.

In fact, ClearPath did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific credit
terms stated in many of those advertisements.

In numerous instances, ClearPath misrepresented the actual credit terms
applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements described mortgages with a
simple interest rate and APR combination that, on the date of the
advertisement, ClearPath was not actually prepared to offer or arrange.

For example, ClearPath advertisements sent to around 260,000 consumers in
November and December 2017 advertised a variable-rate mortgage with a
fixed interest of 2.25% for the first three years and an APR of 3.17%.

In fact, the advertised APR was not correct because it did not take into
account a reasonably current index for the variable-rate period and required
discount points.

The actual APR for this loan, calculated in accordance with Regulation Z
and taking into account a reasonably current index and required discount

points, was at least 3.516%.
31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

AQAA Reker AAA my 2 cee ah Petr NR A ere PV a omy
POOR Aaa Pinciierenmt 7 Witael NOFA APIO Mana OG et AD
” tie PS Se bee oe : ay Sabbabey sy : Bese af ak Fe i “ i& ‘

ae We Pe Pht - Jha PR eRe P RGA Leah Phe es = PO GAMA a A :

Accordingly, ClearPath misrepresented the actual APR for loans offered in
these advertisements.

Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements misrepresented the existence
and amount of fees or costs to the consumer.

In another example, ClearPath advertisements sent to around 80,600
consumers in July 2017 stated “NO Lender Fees” in bold font in a box titled
“Closing Costs,” along with an advertised APR of 3.17%.

In fact, consumers could not obtain a loan from ClearPath with an APR of
3.17% without paying two discount points at closing. Therefore, the
statement “NO Lender Fees” was false.

Certain ClearPath mortgage advertisements misleadingly advertised rates or
payments as “fixed” rates or payments, although the mortgage advertised
was an adjustable-rate or variable-rate mortgage.

For example, ClearPath advertisements sent to consumers in or around
January 2018 used the phrase “30 Year Loan /3 Year Fixed” next to the
advertised payment on the front. In these advertisements, the phrase
“Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,” “Variable-Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” did not
appear before the first use of the word “fixed,” nor was it at least as

conspicuous as any use of the word “fixed” in the advertisements.
37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

ARAM SS AMam ~ a ont me gE
2OOH RRR AGAR Miners t fF Riad MOM AleaAaan
Sa tet ta RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PETROS AG bi core

In these advertisements, despite stating in fine print on the reverse side that
the offer was for an “‘adjustable-rate mortgage,” the use of the word “fixed”
to refer to a rate or payment was not accompanied by an equally prominent
and closely proximate statement of the fact that the rate may vary or the
payment may increase after the first three years.

In another example, ClearPath advertisements sent to consumers in or
around January 2018 contained a box on the top portion of the advertisement
that stated an amount described as “Payment for Next 12 Months” and
directly below that box, another box that stated “30 year Fixed” in bold font.
The phrase “30 year Fixed” referred to that stated payment amount.

In fact, the payment amount disclosed was not the same for 30 years. The
payment amount for the first 12 months included a discounted principal and
interest payment plus taxes and insurance and the payment amount for the
remaining 348 months would include full principal and interest plus taxes
and insurance.

In these advertisements, the phrase “30 year Fixed” was not accompanied by
an equally prominent and closely proximate statement of the fact that the
payment would increase to a higher fixed amount after the first 12 months.
Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements misrepresented the existence,

nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection

10
42.

43.

44,

45.

46.

2020-BCFP-0015 Document1 Filed 09/14/2020 Page 11 of 52

with the mortgage.

Specifically, ClearPath advertisements sent to around 80,600 consumers in
July 2017, advertised both a “VA Streamline” mortgage (also known as an
Interest Rate Reduction Refinance Loan) and a “Cash-Out” refinance
mortgage. The advertisements stated, “No Equity Required.” The
positioning of that statement on these advertisements implied that it applied

to both of the advertised products, as shown below.

 

PIN Number Department Phone Number Home Value

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(866) 328-5957 No Appraisal Required
Loan Option Notice Regarding Subject Cash-Out with Appraisal
Your Mortgage Rate Reduction
- . Closing Costs $20,522
VA Streamline No Lender Fees
Rate New Monthly Payment Property Address
2.25% $784.45
(3.17% APR’)
No Equity Required

 

 

 

 

 

The “No Equity Required” representation was not accompanied by any
statement indicating that it did not apply to both products.

In fact, while equity in the property may not be required to obtain an Interest
Rate Reduction Refinance Loan, the consumer must have equity in the
property to obtain a cash-out refinance mortgage.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 27—44
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

1]
47.

48.

ARAN RAPER AMAT ry, nt A Poy at AN BIA AS
POO ORE BLOTS Pocument 7 Pidacd Gost afeoeg
on at te PE ta RPA TAS Pd PoP AG bi eo ea

Misrepresentations About an Affiliation with the Government
Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements falsely represented that the
sender of the advertisements and the provider of the mortgage product
described in the advertisements was, or was affiliated with, the VA. These
advertisements were written in the form of a notification letter addressed to
the consumer, informing the consumer of his entitlement to and eligibility
for certain VA loan benefits—namely, the purported lower payment and rate
on a 30-year loan identified in the letter. The letter included the phrases
2017 — Eligibility Notification” and “Benefit Allotment” in its header, and
assigned a “VA Loan ID Number” to the consumer’s existing VA loan. The
letter stated that ClearPath had “important information regarding your VA
loan,” that “records” from the consumer’s city indicated that the consumer
had “yet to take advantage of programs sponsored by The Department of
Veterans Affairs,” and that the consumer was “entitled to a payment and rate
reduction through VA eligibility lending programs.” The letter further stated,
“It is important you call our VA Loan Service Center toll free (866) 284-
9875 within 21 business days. By taking action now your next mortgage
payment may not be due until April 2018.”

The form of the communication—a notification letter—and the phrases and

characteristics described in paragraph 47 implied that the sender of the letter

12
49.

50.

SI.

52.

ARAN Serr Amar PA ce a Poy at AN BIA AS Maw OEE
POORER DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bien CPT a sep ert Rane Tl oat Se
than Sad an at Rad Nat tat BA AEN Pa POPPA AG PO a et : age § Lat NPS

was the VA or an entity affiliated with the VA and that the purported lower
payment and rate listed in the letter were benefits or entitlements being
provided directly by the VA or an entity affiliated with the VA, for which
the consumer was being notified of his or her entitlement and eligibility.
Those representations were false because ClearPath—the sender of the
advertisements and the provider of the mortgage product described in the
advertisements—was not affiliated with the VA or any other governmental
entity.
Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 47—49
were likely to be misled by them.
The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

Inadequate Disclosures
Most of ClearPath’s mortgage advertisements stated a period of repayment,
payment amount, or simple annual rate of interest. Under certain sections of
Regulation Z, including § 1026.24(c), (d) and (f), the use of these terms
triggers specific disclosure requirements. Many of the advertisements did
not include the other disclosures that are required, or did not include them in

the manner required.

13
53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PN oe a enh Gh PN dag Pe me. fae ee
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Pane t4 af he
than Sad an at Rad Nat tat BA AEN Pa POPPA AG PO a et : Lag he FP AE PS

Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements stated a simple annual
interest rate more conspicuously than the APR.

Specifically, ClearPath advertisements described in paragraphs 28—31 stated
a simple annual rate of 2.25% in bold font, but the APR was stated below the
simple rate in a smaller font with weaker bolding.

Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements stated the period of
repayment or the amount of a payment, but did not state the number and
time period of payments associated with the consumer’s repayment
obligations over the full term of the loan.

Specifically, ClearPath advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to
around 80,600 consumers in July 2017 stated a payment amount for the first
three years of the loan that was based on a discounted, introductory fixed
rate of 2.25%, but after the first three years, the payment amount would be
based on a variable rate that would adjust annually based on an index and
margin, with annual adjustments capped at 1% per year. While the payment
amount would likely be higher during the variable-rate period than in the
fixed-rate period, these advertisements did not state the number and time
period of payments for the variable-rate period.

Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements stated a simple annual rate of

interest for a loan for which more than one interest rate would apply, but:

14
58.

59.

60.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PA ee et enh Gh PN dag Pe rr
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Rane Th oat Se
than Sad an at Rad Nat tat BA AEN Pa Po! AG Pi coe : ghee ed wie

(A) for variable-rate transactions, failed to state a rate determined by adding
an index and margin, based on a reasonably current index and margin; (B)
failed to clearly and conspicuously state the period during which each simple
annual rate of interest would apply; or (C) failed to state an accurate APR
for the loan because the stated APR was not based on a reasonably current
index, and thus, was not correctly calculated under Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R.
§§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

For example, ClearPath advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage
described in Paragraph 56 stated a simple rate of interest but failed to
disclose the rate that would apply to the variable-rate period, as determined
by adding a reasonably current index and margin.

Moreover, because these advertisements disclosed an APR that was
calculated using an index that was not reasonably current, they failed to
disclose an APR that complied with the accuracy standards set forth in 12
C.F.R. § 1026.22(a)(2) and (4).

Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements stated the amount of a
payment, but failed to state clearly and conspicuously the amount of each
payment that would apply over the term of the loan (e.g., for variable-rate
mortgages, payments based on the application of the sum of a reasonably

current index and margin); the period during which each payment would

15
61.

62.

63.

64.

ARAM SS AMam ~ a ont me gE
2OOH RRR AGAR Miners t fF Riad MOM AleaAaan
Sa tet ta RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PETROS AG bi core

apply; or the fact that the advertised payments did not include amounts for
taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation would be greater.

For example, ClearPath advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage
described in Paragraph 56 stated a payment amount based on an introductory
rate of 2.25% that would apply for the first three years, but for the variable-
rate period of the loan, did not disclose a payment amount based on a
reasonably current index and margin.

In another example, ClearPath advertisements sent to consumers in 2018
stated a monthly payment amount in large bold font on the front but did not
contain an equally prominent and closely proximate statement of the period
during which each payment amount would apply.

In another example, over 1.6 million ClearPath advertisements sent to
consumers from March 2018 to September 2019 failed to state, clearly and
conspicuously, that the payments did not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment obligation
would be greater.

Numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements used the name of the
consumer’s current lender without disclosing with equal prominence the

name of the person making the advertisement and without including a clear

16
65.

66.

67.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PA ee et enh Gh PN dag Pe rr
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/tafeoea Rane Ty of SE
than Sad an at Rad Nat tat BA AEN Pa Po! AG Pi coe : MgAe oF Fo kd we

and conspicuous statement that the person making the advertisement was not
associated with or acting on behalf of the consumer’s current lender.

For example, ClearPath advertisements sent to consumers in or around
January 2018 stated the name of the consumer’s current lender in bold font
on the upper left of the advertisement, and in bold and all caps on the
envelope. While ClearPath’s name appeared on the envelope and on the
front of the advertisements, it was in much smaller font than the current
lender’s name. The advertisements also failed to include a clear and
conspicuous statement that the person making the advertisement was not
associated with or acting on behalf of the consumer’s current lender.

VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION Z
Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a), “[i]f an advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”

ClearPath violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 23-44,
numerous ClearPath advertisements for credit stated specific credit terms
other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or offered by

the creditor.

17
68.

69.

70.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PA ee et emt ot dat A IY mh... 4 kN
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Rane TRoft Se
Sao Te oN bat RPA TAS Pd Sobek yO a ee 5 A 5 Pe

Interest Rates Other than the APR, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(c):
Ifan advertisement states a rate of finance charge, it shall state
the rate as an “annual percentage rate,” using that term. If the
annual percentage rate may be increased after consummation,
the advertisement shall state that fact.... If an advertisement
is for credit secured by a dwelling, the advertisement shall not
state any other rate [other than the APR], except that a simple
annual rate that is applied to an unpaid balance may be stated

in conjunction with, but not more conspicuously than, the
[APR].

ClearPath violated § 1026.24(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 53—54,
numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements stated a simple annual interest

rate more conspicuously than the APR.
Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), if an advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t]he terms of repayment, which reflect

the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, including any

balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), (2)ai).

18
71.

72.

73.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PA ee et emt ot dat A IY mh. aN RS
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/1Tafeoneo Pane TQ of 42
SNP eI Pe Phd bat BA AEN Pa PO oPyo Ae woh ESE SOCAL Ne FOr ed wre

ClearPath violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs 55—56,
numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements set forth the period of
repayment or the amount of any payment, which are triggering terms under §
1026.24(d)(1)i1) and (111), but failed to state the repayment obligations over

the full term of the loan, pursuant to § 1026.24(d)(2)(i1).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(i)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(1), if a direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annual rate of interest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) Each simple annual rate of interest that will apply.
In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by
adding an index and margin shall be disclosed based on

a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each simple
annual rate of interest will apply; and

(C) The [APR] for the loan. If such rate is variable, the

[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
§§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

ClearPath violated § 1026.24(f)(2)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs
57-59, numerous ClearPath direct-mail mortgage advertisements for a loan
for which more than one interest rate would apply stated a simple annual rate

of interest, but did not include one or more of the disclosures required

19
AAA PPAR, Am ~ Lo peg mA tg Eee a me om
2OOH RRR AGAR Mie issycinmt 4 Clan it APA Beane GO at AD
Sai tee ot WA bal BASLE EER PER Od YESS wir ESP SAG Xe a AY id

ety
CO

pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(2))(A) through (C), or did not disclose them

clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(2)(ii).
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)

74. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(1), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the amount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that will apply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be

disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first lien on a
dwelling, the fact that the payments do not include amounts

for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the
actual payment obligation will be greater.

75. ClearPath violated § 1026.24(f)(3)() because, as described in Paragraphs
60—63, numerous ClearPath direct-mail mortgage advertisements stated the
amount of a payment but did not include one or more of the disclosures
required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)(A) through (C), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(3)(i1).

20
70.

AA PE PAIE ES = .
SOOO Re om ARs
Sa tet

~ a 4 Pe EN a BES A ae ot OO
ya Paciiyent 4 Bilack POS aren Mana Ot af Ao
tat BA AEN Pa POPPA AG PO a et : Leg he ge FE we

Misleading Use of the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(1)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24()(1), mortgage advertisements may not:

Us[e] the word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the
credit transaction in an advertisement for variable-rate
transactions or other transactions where the payment will
increase, unless:

(i) In the case of an advertisement solely for one or more
variable-rate transactions,

(A) The phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,”
“Variable-Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” appears in the
advertisement before the first use of the word “fixed”
and is at least as conspicuous as any use of the word
“fixed” in the advertisement; and

(B) Each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate or
payment is accompanied by an equally prominent and
closely proximate statement of the time period for
which the rate or payment is fixed, and the fact that the
rate may vary or the payment may increase after that
period.

(ii) In the case of an advertisement solely for non-variable-
rate transactions where the payment will increase (e.g., a
stepped-rate mortgage transaction with an initial lower
payment), each use of the word “fixed” to refer to the payment
is accompanied by an equally prominent and closely
proximate statement of the time period for which the payment
is fixed, and the fact that the payment will increase after that
period; or

(iii) In the case of an advertisement for both variable-rate
transactions and non-variable-rate transactions,

(A) The phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,”
“Variable-Rate Mortgage.” or “ARM” appears in the

21
ARAN RAPER AMAT ry, nt A Poy at AN BIA AS
POO ORE BLOTS Pocument 7 Pidacd Gost afeoeg
on at te PE ta RPA TAS Pd PoP AG bi eo ea

advertisement with equal prominence as any use of the
term “fixed,” “Fixed-Rate Mortgage,” or similar terms;
and

(B) Each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate,
payment, or the credit transaction either refers solely to
the transactions for which rates are fixed and complies
with paragraph (1)(1)i) of this section, if applicable,
or, if it refers to the variable-rate transactions, is
accompanied by an equally prominent and closely
proximate statement of the time period for which the
rate or payment is fixed, and the fact that the rate may
vary or the payment may increase after that period.

77. ClearPath violated § 1026.24(i)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs 35—
40, numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements for variable-rate
transactions or other transactions where the payment will increase used the
word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the credit transaction and did not

comply with the requirements of § 1026.24(1)(1)Q) through (iii).
Misleading Use of the Current Lender’s Name, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(4)

78. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(4), mortgage advertisements may not:

Us[e] the name of the consumer’s current lender in an
advertisement that is not sent by or on behalf of the
consumer’s current lender, unless the advertisement:

(1) Discloses with equal prominence the name of the
person or creditor making the advertisement; and

(ii) Includes a clear and conspicuous statement that

the person making the advertisement is not
associated with, or acting on behalf of, the

22
79.

80.

81.

ARAA SAP Amar ~*~ a oe em ag Ee -~ *~e em
SOA RE AMA Pieacmiyrent 4 Riad MOM AleaAaan Banca Ba af Ro
Sa teed WAS ba BA AEN Pa PPA wr PS UA : ANS er ee ee

consumer’s current lender.

ClearPath violated § 1026.24(1)(4) because, as described in Paragraphs 64—
65, numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements, which were not sent by or
on behalf of the consumer’s current lender, used the name of the consumer’s
current lender and did not (1) disclose with equal prominence the name of
the person or creditor making the advertisement, as required by §
1026.24(1)(4)(1); or (2) include a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement was not associated with, or acting on
behalf of, the consumer’s current lender, as required by § 1026.24(1)(4)(ii).
VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP RULE (REGULATION N)

Misrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he annual
percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”
applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a
misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
ClearPath violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-31,
numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations

about the APR applicable to a mortgage credit product.

23
82.

83.

84.

APA PR OA PR of a ~ . A pansy SN ee oe
SAA Beer pe Meas Payee cssscamd 4 Saad MOA APS AaN
ee ed be bhi opr etal Ho ro} POUT PY eer ot pr bier ay ee ro ae re
Soke eR Pee tat te AEN Ed PETROS AG bi core

Misrepresentations About Fees or Costs, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(c), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|t]he existence,
nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer associated with the
mortgage credit product, including but not limited to misrepresentations that
no fees are charged.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is
specifically prohibited and is therefore material.

ClearPath violated § 1014.3(c) because, as described in Paragraphs 32-34,
numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of fees or costs to the consumer

associated with a mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations Using the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|[t]he
variability of interest, payments, or other terms of the mortgage credit

product, including but not limited to misrepresentations using the word

24
85.

86.

87.

ARPA PE Ae PV, ut ow Pee PN Fat EEE Roe IE REA
SOOO. RCE DLOATS Praciirnant 4 Milan OM Afenaen Moana CA Af So
Ba Sf tn ST et tat BA AEN Pa PoP AG bi eo ea : Lede at Gd re

‘fixed.’” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

ClearPath violated § 1014.3(g) because, as described in Paragraphs 35—40,
numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the variability of interest, payments, or other terms of a mortgage by

using the word “fixed” to describe a variable-rate mortgage credit product.

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 C.F.R. § 1014.3()

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|t]he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, including but not limited to
misrepresentations that the consumer will receive a certain amount of cash
or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
ClearPath violated § 1014.3(j) because, as described in Paragraphs 41—44,
numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available to the consumer in

connection with the mortgage credit product, including misrepresentations

25
ARAA SAP Amar ~ a oe em ag Ee
SOA RE AMA Phevesirpvcant 4 Riad MOM AleaAaan
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE tat BHAA Ed Po! AG Pi coe

that the consumer would receive a certain amount of cash as part of a

mortgage credit transaction.
Misrepresentations About Government Affiliation, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n)

88. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about:

the association of the mortgage credit product or any provider
of such product with any other person or program, including

but not limited to misrepresentations that:

(1) The provider is, or is affiliated with, any
governmental entity or other organization; or

(2) The product is or relates to a government benefit, or
is endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with any
government or other program, including but not limited
to through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that

resemble those of such entity, organization, or
program.

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

89. ClearPath violated § 1014.3(n) because, as described in Paragraphs 47-49,
numerous ClearPath mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit product was or was

affiliated with the government.

26
90.

91.

92.

93.

ARAN SAP AMAR PA ee emt ot dat A IY mo oy ke
POORER DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Blan SOP are aye Dana OF af Oe
Ba SE tut Ret AE PPR EEG SPP Aur EMS SO eA 4 Reto a. Nat Pe

VIOLATIONS OF THE CFPA

Under the CFPA, it is unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-financial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Information that is likely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers.
Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 23-46, ClearPath’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
specific credit terms were available or would be arranged or offered by the
creditor, including representations about specific APRs, the variable or fixed
nature of rates or payments, lender fees, and required equity, when in fact
those specific credit terms were not available or were not terms that

ClearPath was actually prepared to arrange or offer.

27
94.

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

APA PR OA PR of a ~ . A pansy SN ee oe
SAA Beer pe Meas Payee cssscamd 4 Saad MOA APS AaN
ee ed be bhi opr etal Ho ro} POUT PY eer ot pr bier ay ee ro ae re
Soke eR Pee tat te AEN Ed PETROS AG bi core

ClearPath’s misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised credit
terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers acting
reasonably under the circumstances.

ClearPath’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

Therefore, ClearPath engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
Misrepresentations About Government Affiliation

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 47-51, ClearPath’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication that
ClearPath was or was affiliated with the VA or that the advertisement was
sent by or on behalf of the VA.

In fact, ClearPath was not affiliated with the VA and the advertisements
were not sent by or on behalf of the VA.

ClearPath’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were likely to
mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.
ClearPath’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were material

because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of consumers.

28
101.

102.

103.

104.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PA ee et enh Gh PN dag Pe mh OTN RS
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/1Tafeoneo Pana PO of 42
Batt UPd oN bat RPA TAS Pd Sobek we EOS CN ee! 5 A Ba NE Pe

Therefore, ClearPath engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §8 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Violations of the CFPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule

Under the CFPA, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules
thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. $$ 5536(a)(1)(A), 5481(14).
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.
ClearPath’s violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 66-89, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12

U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

VI.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§

5563, 5565, that:

105.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, and

29
in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering for sale

of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:

a. Misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or

by implication:

Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to the following: the total
costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or
central characteristics; or

The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any

consumer.

b. Including or using any words, phrases, images, or design

characteristics that falsely state or imply that:

1.

The source of the advertisement is the government or the
consumer’s current lender or is affiliated with the government
or the consumer’s current lender; or

The advertisement is anything other than an advertisement for a

mortgage;

30
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/tafeoea
Ba Sf tn ST et tat te AEN Ed POPPA AG PO a et

C. Including or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or

design characteristics:

1. “Benefit announcement”

2. “Eligibility advisory”

3. “Eligibility notice”

4, “Eligibility status”

5. “Expiration notice”

6. “Pending authorization”

7. “VA loan department”

8. “VA loan representative”

9. “VA loan specialist”

10. “VA program customer support”

11. “VA specialist”

12. “Waiting period”

13. The IRS signature year style (two digits in white or outlined
text and the other two digits in black text);

14. The format of an IRS form, including Form W-2, or a
substantially similar format; or

15. Any VA or United States Department of Defense (DOD) logo,

or a logo, emblem, or other representation that resembles—or

31
AMON POE .
IOWA CE RA
Ba Sf tn ST et

= ~ nt A ee Nat 8 FAA
Ty Miners t fF Pia OST AP oan
ta RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PoP AS by aoe

that a consumer could reasonably interpret as—a VA or DOD

logo;

Stating the name of the consumer’s current or prior lender, unless the
current or prior lender is ClearPath, or unless stating the name of the

current or prior lender is otherwise required by law.

106. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or

offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following

affirmative actions:

a.

Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and implied
claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement, if the advertisement
includes more than one credit product, the terms, features,
characteristics, and benefits of each product must be grouped together
and labeled with a statement Clearly and Prominently indicating the
specific product to which those terms, features, characteristics, or
benefits apply.

If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the

32
AMON POE .
IOWA CE RA
Ba Sf tn ST et

= ~ nt A ee Nat 8 FAA
Ty Miners t fF Pia OST AP oan
ta RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PoP AS by aoe

amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minimum:

1.

2.

The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

The amount of each payment that will apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;
The period during which each payment will apply;

The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and
The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate

may be increased after consummation, that fact.

33
2020-BCFP-0015 Document1 Filed 09/14/2020 Page 34 of 52

In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,

Respondent must:

1. State, Clearly and Prominently, that the product is an
“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” before the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

2. For each simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based
on an index and margin, base the rate on an index value in
effect on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior,
and disclose the index and margin; and

3. State that more information about adjustable rate mortgages is

available at https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201401 cfpb

 

booklet charm.pdf.

 

Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be
made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, must be:

1. In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments

triggering the required disclosures;

34
ARAN APM AAMAS PA ee et enh Gh PN dag Pe rr
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Rane 3S of So
than Sad an at Rad Nat tat BA AEN Pa POPPA AG PO a et : ghee asta ab wie

2. Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

3. Otherwise compliant with Regulation Z, as applicable.

VIL.

Advertising Review

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

107. Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the following
affirmative actions:

a. Respondent’s Advertising Compliance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it is
compliant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims
made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

b. Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is
mailed to consumers, the Advertising Compliance Official must

review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any

35
ARAM SS AMam ~ a ont me gE
2OOH RRR AGAR Miners t fF Riad MOM AleaAaan
Sa tet ta RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PETROS AG bi core

envelope, mailer, and enclosures—to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,
expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is disseminated. This requirement
applies whether the set is mailed as a single set or in multiple sets or
subsets. It also applies whether the set is mailed out at a single time or
over a period.

The Advertising Compliance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement
includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availability of the advertised rate(s). If the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all

inputs assumed when calculating that number. If the advertisement

36
108.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PN oe a my Aa a Ae a
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/tafeoea Rane 3Y of SE
on at te PE tat BA AEN Pa Po! AG Pi coe : Lagi aw ta SNPS

states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
include any materials used to determine the availability of that
amount.

d. The Advertising Compliance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VI.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
mortgage advertising complies with all applicable Federal consumer
financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The
Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent

Order; and

37
109.

110.

111.

ARAN NAPS Ama” PA ee emt ot dat A IY ere
POORER DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Blan SOP are aye Dana SR af Ro
Soe Ue WAS Pot BP ASLP PERG Gk og SPINA Ae PSY a ea 5a Ae adhe Gil wie

b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 15 days.

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

MONETARY PROVISIONS
IX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the

violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a

civil money penalty of $625,000 to the Bureau.

38
112.

113.

114.

115.

ARAN SPER Ansar PA ee emt ot dat A IY mh. EN RS
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Page BO af S2
Sao Te bat BA AEN Pa PoP AG bi eo ea : Lede WP Pe

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil
money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the

civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the

39
116.

117.

APA PR OA PR of a ~ . A pansy SN ee ae
AH WA GPC AVAL Tineiimscnt 4 Cian MOM AMMAN
ee ed be bhi opr etal Ho ro} POUT PY eer ot pr bier ay ee ro ae re
on at te PE tat te AEN Ed PETROS AG bi core

Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

X.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be

returned to Respondent.

40
118.

119.

120.

AMAA AAPM ANAS PA ee emt ot dat A IY mo. et ke
POORER ELAN Paccyent 4 Riad fO/tafeaen Dane Ai af So
Ba Sf tn ST et tat BA AEN Pa PoP AG bi eo ea : Laie SP OP ah wre

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
XI.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices

subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency

41
121.

122.

123.

AAAA SPR Ama PV ut ow Pry PN rat een Rae EO
POORER ELAN Paccyent 4 Riad fO/tafeaen Dane AP af So
on at te PE tat RPA TAS Pd PoP AG bi eo ea : cay Te Je

proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or

address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days

before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. Identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

C. Describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 121 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to

42
124.

PRP PROPER Ae
SOA RCE BIANT:
Ba Sf tn ST et

= Tren mand Mian MO AfOAanM Mawes AQ AL ES
mis Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Pane 43 af 52
Da RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PoP Ae Pee : Lede Xa Pe

the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by Respondent’s executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;
Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;
Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an
explanation of why any such instances occurred; and
Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,

sworn under penalty of perjury.

43
125.

126.

127.

128.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PA ee et enh Gh PN dag Pe me. aa ee
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Pane 44 af S32
than Sad an at Rad Nat tat BA AEN Pa Po! AG Pi coe : gies Srp ker wie

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members (if any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was

delivered through that date under Paragraphs 125-126 and a copy of all

44
129.

ARAN SPER Ansar PA ee et emt ot dat A IY mh. ae ke
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Pane 45 af S32
on at te PE Da BaP AS SPEER Pkg PoP AG bi eo ea 5 Led Re PA Pe

signed and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order
under Paragraph 127.
XII.

Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12 C.F.R.
§ 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four
months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated the applicable
commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit

product, the following evidence of compliance with the MAP Rule:

a. Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well
as sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

b. Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to

consumers; and

45
130.

131.

132.

ARAM SS AMam ~ a ont me gE
2OOH RRR AGAR Miners t fF Riad MOM AleaAaan
Sa tet ta RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od PETROS AG bi core

C. Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.

Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage
advertisements disseminated within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least
5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 107(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retain the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,

including any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s

46
133.

134.

135.

ARAN SAP AMAR PA ee emt ot dat A IY me an ees
SOOO. RCE DLOATS Paciiyent 4 Sila AOltareaen Rane Ay af AS
SSP eM bat BP ASLP PERG Gk og PoP! ASG PMS Oe 5 Lae SPP ASE Pa

behalf; and
C. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received

directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses

to those complaints or requests.
Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 132 for at
least 5 years after creation of the record.
Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraphs 129-133
available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re
ClearPath Lending, Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP-0015,” and send them by
overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552

47
136.

137.

138.

APA PR OA PR of a ~ . A pansy SN ee oe
SAA Beer pe Meas Payee cssscamd 4 Saad MOA APS AaN
ee ed be bhi opr etal Ho ro} POUT PY eer ot pr bier ay ee ro ae re
Soke eR Pee tat te AEN Ed PETROS AG bi core

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.

48
139.

140.

141.

142.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PN oe a enh Gh PN dag Pe mh NS
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Pilad GO/1Tafeoneo Pane dO of 42
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE tat BA AEN Pa POPPA AG PO a et : Lag he “PF Gt we

Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as

described in Paragraph 143. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the

49
143.

144.

145.

APA PR OA PR of a ~ . A pansy SN ee oe
SAA Beer pe Meas Payee cssscamd 4 Saad MOA APS AaN
ee ed be bhi opr etal Ho ro} POUT PY eer ot pr bier ay ee ro ae re
Soke eR Pee tat te AEN Ed PETROS AG bi core

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 130-131 and 133-134 of this Consent

Order will terminate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired.

50
146.

147.

148.

149.

ARAN AAPA ANAS PN oe a enh Gh PN dag Pe mh. Pe wees
POS O.R CE RLOOTS Pocument 7 Eiecd GOS afeoeg Rane Atoft Se
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE tat BA AEN Pa POPPA AG PO a et : Lg he at Po wd we

All other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from
the Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete

agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,

51
 

2020-BCFP-0015 Document1 Filed 09/14/2020 Page 52 of 52

representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

150. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this |O” Yay of September, 2020.

KthoenA Locos go
Kathleen L. Kraninger Oo ,
Director

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

52
