SEALED

BY THE ORDER OF THE COURT

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

AO 91 (Rev. [1/1 1) Criminal Complaint

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the
ae i FILED IN THE
District of Hawaii UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF HAWAII
‘ ‘ Jan 24, 2019
United States of America ) SUE BEITIA, CLERK
V. )
Master Halbert ) ‘Rees Ne:
) MAG. NO. 19-00089 KJM
)
)
)
Defendant(s)
CRIMINAL COMPLAINT
1, the complainant in this case, state that the following is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
On orabout the date(s)of ====————— «2006-2016 ___ in the county of _ Honolulu —_—_siinthe
ee _ Districtof —— ~Hawaii_ , the defendant(s) violated:
Code Section Offense Description
Title 18, United States Code, Conspiracy to Launder Monetary Instruments

Section 1956(h)
This criminal complaint is based on these facts:

¥ Continued on the attached sheet. LD
Sworn to under oath before me telephonically Complains valentine a

and attestation acknowledged pursuant to g
PECIAL EA Ayal AloH4,
FRCP 4.1 (b)(2). ee nae i = a _

Sworn to before me and signed in my presence.

ves DISy,
ai> : _ Rig

Date: January 24, 2019 at 2:36 p.m.

»
o

 

Kenneth J. Mansfield

City and state: Honolulu, Hawaii
OO United States Magistrate Judge

 
AFFIDAVIT IN SUPPORT OF CRIMINAL COMPLAINT AND ARREST WARRANT

I, Aryn Nohara, being duly sworn, affirm and state:

INTRODUCTION

1. I am a Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and have
been so employed since June 2012. I am currently assigned to a white collar crime squad at the
FBI Honolulu Field Office in Kapolei, Hawaii. My current duties include investigating public
corruption, fraud against the government, and complex financial fraud crimes. In the course of
my duties, I have prepared and executed dozens of search and arrest warrants.

2. This affidavit is being submitted in support of a criminal complaint and an arrest
warrant charging MASTER HALBERT (“HALBERT”) with conspiracy to launder monetary
instruments, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h), that is: to transport,
transmit and transfer a monetary instrument and funds to a place in the United States from and
through a place outside the United States, and from a place in the United States to and through a
place outside the United States, with the intent to promote the carrying on of specified unlawful
activity, namely, the bribery of HALBERT by Frank James Lyon (“Lyon”) and others, in
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code, Section
78dd-2, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(a)(2)(A).

3. The facts and information contained in this affidavit are based on my
investigation, personal knowledge and observations, my review of records and documents
obtained during this investigation, and information received from other individuals, including
witnesses and other law enforcement officers, as well as my training and experience. Because

this affidavit is submitted for the limited purpose of establishing probable cause in support of a
criminal complaint and an arrest warrant, it does not set forth each and every fact that I have
learned during the course of this investigation.
FACTS TO SUPPORT PROBABLE CAUSE

4. At all relevant times, HALBERT was a citizen of the Federated States of
Micronesia (“FSM”) who resided in the FSM. HALBERT was a government official in the
FSM Department of Transportation, Communications and Infrastructure who administered
FSM’s aviation programs, including the management of its airports. As such, HALBERT was a
“foreign official” as that term is defined in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section
78dd-2(h)(2)(A).

5. Frank James Lyon, also known as Jim Lyon, was a United States citizen and
resident. Lyon was a “domestic concern” as that term is defined in the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1), and a “United States person”
as that term is defined in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(i).

6. “Engineering Company,” an entity whose identity is known to the United States,
was a privately-held United States engineering and consulting company headquartered in
Honolulu, Hawaii and organized under the laws of Hawaii. Engineering Company was partially
owned and controlled by Lyon. In or around and between 2006 and 2016, Engineering Company
obtained contracts valued at approximately $7.8 million with the FSM government, including for
an airport improvement project funded in large part by the United States Federal Aviation
Administration (“FAA AIP Contract’) and for project management. Engineering Company was
a “domestic concern” as that term is defined in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section
78dd-2(h)(1), and a “United States person” as that term is defined in the FCPA, Title 15, United

States Code, Section 78dd-2(i).
Ti “Co-Conspirator 1” was a United States citizen who resided in the Federated
States of Micronesia (“FSM”). Co-Conspirator 1 was a “domestic concern” as that term is
defined in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1), and a “United States
person” as that term is defined in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(i).

8. On or about January 22, 2019, Lyon pleaded guilty to a one-count Information in
the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii charging him with a dual-object
conspiracy: (1) to violate the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2; and (2) to
commit federal program fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(2).

9. On or about January 22, 2019, Lyon entered into a cooperation plea agreement
and has provided information to the government pursuant to that agreement. The government
may move the sentencing court for a reduction in Lyon’s sentence if he substantially assists the
government’s investigation and is truthful.

10. —_In connection with his plea, Lyon admitted to paying bribes to FSM government
officials, including HALBERT, to obtain and retain contracts and to obtain contract payments
for Engineering Company from the FSM.

1. Information gathered in the investigation, including bank records, travel records,
and witness statements, reveals that Lyon entered into an agreement with HALBERT to bribe
HALBERT in exchange for HALBERT’s assistance in securing contracts for Engineering
Company and Lyon. Lyon and HALBERT agreed that these bribes would be transported from
the United States to FSM. In furtherance of, and to promote, the corrupt agreement, Lyon
withdrew thousands of dollars in cash from his personal bank account in the District of Hawaii

on numerous occasions in order to pay cash bribes to HALBERT in the District of Hawaii, the
FSM and elsewhere, and Lyon and HALBERT transported and delivered the cash bribes from
the District of Hawaii to the FSM.

12. For example, on or about May 3, 2010, HALBERT sent an email to Lyon and
Co-Conspirator 1 regarding an FSM auditor’s concerns about the purchase of a vehicle.
HALBERT wrote, “I know I should protect myself and [not] put this in writing or discuss this in
e-mail or any form of communication that can provide as a concrete evident [sic] and come back
and used against me but its ok, if you want to take me down no problem.” HALBERT wrote
and threatened that if Lyon and Co-Conspirator 1 were not willing to back him up in confronting
the auditor, then HALBERT did “not think [they] should do business together again.”

13. On or about June 2, 2011, HALBERT sent an email to Co-Conspirator 1, stating,
“I am sorry to do this but I really your [sic] help again. We came with $3000 and we have
already used half of that in food and shopping. Can you and Jim [Lyon] give me $1,500.00 and
this should last us for the rest of the trip.”

14. On or about June 2, 2011, HALBERT sent an email to Co-Conspirator 1, with
the subject line “travel fund,” stating, “Jim [Lyon] is ok. delete this after raeding.” [sic]

15. On or about December 1, 2011, HALBERT emailed Co-Conspirator 1, “Can you
ask Jim for some money? I need $1000 and if ok, you can give it to me when we get to Hawaii.”

16. In connection with his plea, Lyon admitted that in or around 2012, Lyon and his
co-conspirators purchased an automobile for HALBERT’s personal use in order to obtain and
retain business for Lyon and Engineering Company.

17. Information gathered in the investigation, including witness statements, reveals

that Lyon, together with his co-conspirators, purchased the automobile in the United States and
Lyon and others caused the automobile to be shipped internationally to the FSM for
HALBERT?’s personal use.

18. On or about July 8, 2013, HALBERT sent an email to Lyon directing Lyon to go
look at a Ford truck in the District of Hawaii to potentially purchase for HALBERT.

19. On or about May 7, 2014, HALBERT sent an email to Co-Conspirator 1, with
the subject line, “Per dium,” [sic] stating, “Please bring my money at home. Can you ask Jim if
you can add another $1000.00.” The circumstances of this communication, coupled with other
evidence uncovered in the case, demonstrate that HALBERT was asking Lyon to deliver a cash
bribe payment from the District of Hawaii to HALBERT in FSM.

20. ‘In or around June 2015, HALBERT and Lyon instructed Co-Conspirator | to
draft a request for qualification document seeking bids for an FSM project management contract
(“PMU Contract”), including drafting selection criteria to favor Engineering Company in order
to obtain an improper business advantage and win the PMU Contract.

21. In or around July 2015, Engineering Company was awarded the PMU Contract by
the FSM government.

22. On or about August 27, 2015, HALBERT sent an email to Lyon with the subject
line, “2014 Chevy Silverado,” stating, “Please get this truck. It is my cash so when I need to pay
back anyone, I can sell it or this will be my ride forever. If you can, lift it 6 in and put on black
rims.”

23. In connection with his plea, Lyon admitted that in or around 2015, Lyon and his
co-conspirators purchased an additional automobile for HALBERT’s personal use in order to

obtain and retain business.
24. Information gathered in the investigation, including witness statements, reveals
that Lyon, together with his co-conspirators, purchased this additional automobile in the United
States and caused the automobile to be shipped internationally to the FSM for HALBERT’s
personal use.

25. On or about September 1, 2015, HALBERT sent an email to Co-Conspirator 1,
asking Co-Conspirator | to talk to Lyon about loaning HALBERT $2,500 to open an account,
stating, “We will return it once we get compensation, maybe profit if he is nice.”

26. On or about November 15, 2015, HALBERT sent an email to “Engineering
Company Executive,” an individual whose identity is known to the United States, requesting that
Engineering Company book and pay for a hotel room for HALBERT and members of his family
for a trip to Guam. The Engineering Company executive responded that “at this time”
Engineering Company was approving “only project reimbursable travel requests.”

27. Onor about November 16, 2015, HALBERT emailed three Engineering
Company employees, “This is to inform you that I am closing your office starting tomorrow until
further notice. You can email [another Engineering Company executive] and Co-Conspirator 1
and inform him of this direction.”

28. On or about November 17, 2015, HALBERT sent an email to Engineering
Company Executive, stating, “I’m greatly offended and hope this is the last time you will contact
me. You have no business talking as you don’t understand and appreciate how Lyon got this job.
... You’re very disrespectful and insulting. For this, Lyon will never get another job in the
FSM. I can make that happen.”

29. In or around December 2015, HALBERT entered into a Deferred Prosecution

Agreement (“DPA”) with the FSM for falsifying his educational credentials, which allowed him
to receive a higher salary from the FSM government. The DPA required HALBERT to pay
restitution to the FSM government.

30. Leading up to the DPA, on or about October 10, 2015, HALBERT sent an email
to Lyon asking Lyon to “still help me with $40k.”

31. On or about December 22, 2015, HALBERT sent an email to Co-Conspirator 1
with the subject line, “Restitution,” stating, “Please ask Jim if he can give me the whole and I
will put it down in full to lower the monthly.”

32. | Onor about December 22, 2015, Co-Conspirator 1 sent a response email to
HALBERT, informing HALBERT that he had asked, but “they don’t have money now. They
are short of money all the time.”

33; On or about December 22, 2015, HALBERT sent a response email to Co-
Conspirator 1, stating, “I’m shocked...really thought they committed to help. Now I just lost all
my confidence.”

34. | Onor about December 22, 2015, Co-Conspirator 1 sent a response email to
HALBERT, stating, “They will help you by monthly.”

35. On or about March 21, 2016, HALBERT sent an email to Lyon, “You don’t
think people in the Government questions why I have a long term contract with Lyon? You don’t
understand how hard I work from my side to protect you and your contract.”

36. On or about March 31, 2016, HALBERT sent an email to Lyon, stating, “I’m
helping you already and you paying me in some ways when I ask. I’m effective this way right?”

37. Onor about April 19, 2016, HALBERT sent an email to Lyon, stating, “So I will
start getting paid by the Government under my contract in two weeks and I might get hired on

permanently in 1 month. I want to return the whole amount of my checks and every one of them
until my restitution is fully paid off. Can you put me on your payroll so I have some money
every month? Let me know your thought.”
CONCLUSION

38. Based on the foregoing, I believe that probable cause exists to issue a criminal
complaint and arrest warrant charging MASTER HALBERT with violating Title 18, United
States Code, Section 1956(h) (money laundering conspiracy).

I declare under the penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of
my knowledge.

DATED: January 24, 2019, at Honolulu, Hawaii.

Respectfully submitted,

C2 AA

ARYN NOHARA
Special Agent
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Sworn to under oath before me
telephonically and attestation
acknowledged pursuant to FRCP 4.1(b) (2), 2:36 p.m.

ves DIS;
a® 7 “ Re.
e ©
5 | RR
S ee cg %
2 : é A

Kenneth J. Mansfield
United States Magistrate Judge

 

   

Sp, |
"Ret or we
