cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Commonwealth of Massachusetts File
Suit Against Credit-Repair Telemarketers

MAY 22, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) and
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey today jointly filed a
lawsuit against Commonwealth Equity Group, LLC, which does business as Key Credit
Repair, and Nikitas Tsoukales (also known as Nikitas Tsoukalis), Key Credit Repair’s
president and owner. As alleged in the complaint, from 2016 through 2019 alone, Key
Credit Repair enrolled nearly 40,000 consumers nationwide, and since 2011, it collected at
least $23 million in fees from consumers. The Bureau alleges that in their telemarketing of
credit-repair services, the defendants violated the Consumer Financial Protection Act's
(CFPA) prohibition against deceptive acts or practices and the Telemarketing Sales Rule’s
(TSR) prohibitions on deceptive and abusive telemarketing acts or practices.

The Bureau and Massachusetts’s complaint, filed in the federal district court for the District
of Massachusetts, specifically alleges that the defendants deceptively misrepresent that Key
Credit Repair’s actions will or likely will result in a substantial increase to consumers’ credit
scores and the removal of material negative entries on consumers’ credit reports when, in
fact, in numerous instances, Key Credit Repair did not achieve those results. The Bureau
alleges that those misrepresentations are deceptive acts or practices in violation of the
CFPA and the TSR. The Bureau further alleges that Key Credit Repair and Tsoukales
engaged in abusive acts or practices in violation of the TSR by requesting and receiving
payment for their credit-repair services before achieving the promised results and before
giving consumers a consumer report more than six months after achieving the results to
demonstrate the results. The Bureau further alleges that the alleged violations of the TSR
also constitute violations of the CFPA.

The complaint seeks redress to consumers, an injunction, and the imposition of civil money
penalties.

The complaint is not a finding or ruling that the defendants have violated the law.
The Bureau’s investigation was conducted in partnership with Massachusetts.

A copy of the complaint filed in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts is available here:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_commonwealth-equity-group-dba-
key-credit-repair-nikitas-tsoukales_complaint.pdf I (cfpb.gov/documents/8855/cfpb_com
monwealth-equity-group-dba-key-credit-repair-nikitas-tsoukales_complaint.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
