Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 1 of 22

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

 

 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION,
Plaintiff,
v.
EMBRAER, S.A.
Defendant.
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission’’) alleges:
SUMMARY

1. This action arises from violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”)
by Embraer S.A. (““Embraer’ or the “Company”’), a global aircraft manufacturer for the
commercial, defense, and executive jets markets.

2. Between at least May 2008 and February 2011, Embraer paid bribes through its
U.S.-based subsidiary to foreign government officials in the Dominican Republic, Saudi Arabia,
and Mozambique to obtain business. Embraer realized over $83 million in profits from business
obtained through the use of illicit payments.

3. These bribes were authorized by senior executives at Embraer and its subsidiaries
while knowing or recklessly ignoring red flags which indicated a high probability that such
payments were intended for, or would be passed to, foreign officials.

4. Embraer created false books and records to conceal the authorization of least three

bribe payments to at least one government official in the Dominican Republic and another two
bribe payments to a government official in Saudi Arabia. Embraer also created false books and
records to conceal two bribe payments to a government official in the government of
Mozambique. These payments were remitted from a New York-based bank account held in the
name of Embraer’s U.S. subsidiary and paid through intermediaries from as early as April 2009
until at least February 2011.

5. These payments were improperly recorded as legitimate expenses in Embraer’s
U.S. subsidiary’s books and records and were consolidated into Embraer’s financial statements.
Embraer’s internal accounting controls were inadequate because they failed to prevent such
payments or detect red flags which should have alerted its employees that these payments, in
whole or in part, were bribes to foreign government officials. Moreover, the internal controls
were circumvented to allow employees to authorize payments to third parties that were illegal in
the host country, authorized with little or no supporting documents, or concealed through
unrelated business transactions in an effort to avoid detection.

6. Additionally, from January 2005 through November 2009, Embraer, through its
employees, improperly booked large payments to an agent, and concealed its relationship with
this agent, while trying to obtain business in India. Embraer, through its employees, went to
great lengths to conceal the existence of the agreement with its agent in India and falsely
recorded a payment to this agent in order to conceal the true nature of the payment, which
Embraer employees believed were in violation of Indian law, under a different contract serviced
in another country which did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its payments
to this agent.

7. As a result of its conduct in the Dominican Republic, Saudi Arabia, and

Mozambique, Embraer violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 3 of 22

Act’) [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1] when it authorized or paid bribes to foreign officials in order to
obtain or retain business. Embraer violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
§ 78m(b)(2)(A)] when it created false books and records to conceal the authorization of bribe
payments in the Dominican Republic, Saudi Arabia, and Mozambique and to conceal payments
to an agent in India. Embraer also violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
§ 78m(b)(2)(B)] by failing to have sufficient internal accounting controls in place to detect and
prevent the authorization or payment of bribes in the Dominican Republic, Saudi Arabia, and
Mozambique, and detect and prevent the authorization or payment to an agent in India that
Embraer employees had reason to believe was illegal.

8. Embraer is reasonably likely, unless restrained and enjoined, to continue to
engage in the acts and practices set forth in this complaint, and in acts and practices of similar
purport and object.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

9. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d), 21(e), and
27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa].

10. Embraer, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of
interstate commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in
connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this
Complaint. Further, Embraer has consented to venue in this Court.

DEFENDANT

11. Embraer S.A. is a Brazilian company incorporated and headquartered in Sao

Paulo, Brazil, with its North American regional office located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. It is

the world’s largest manufacturer of mid-size commercial jets and a leading Brazilian exporter.
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 4 of 22

Embraer supplies defense aircraft for the Brazilian Air Force and other countries throughout
Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. It also manufactures executive jets and regional
aircraft and offers aviation services. In 2015, Embraer employed over 22,000 employees
worldwide and had revenues just under $6 billion. Throughout the relevant time period,
Embraer’s common shares were registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 781] and traded in the form of American Depositary Shares that were
represented by American Depositary Receipts listed on the NYSE.

12. As such, Embraer was required to file reports, including Form 20-F, with the
Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m] and related rules
thereunder, and was an “issuer” within the meaning of the FCPA [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1].

RELATED ENTITIES

13. Embraer Representations LLC (“Embraer RL”’) is a wholly-owned Embraer
subsidiary formed in Delaware. Embraer RL’s financial statements are consolidated into the
financial statements of Embraer at the parent level. Embraer RL held and maintained the bank
account in New York that transacted the improper payments during the relevant time period.

14. ECC Investment Switzerland AG (“Embraer AG’’) is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Embraer based in Switzerland. Embraer AG’s financial statements are
consolidated into the financial statements of Embraer at the parent level.

FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

A. Embraer’s Illegal Payments in the Dominican Republic

15. From August 2008 through at least October 2010, Embraer, through its employees
and agents, agreed to pay, and did pay, $3.52 million to an official of the government of the

Dominican Republic to obtain a defense contract valued at approximately $96.4 million.
16. Beginning in 2007, employees at Embraer began efforts to sell the Super Tucano
aircraft, a turbine driven propeller military aircraft typically used for border missions to fight
drug trafficking, counter-insurgency missions, and training, to the Fuerza Aérea de Republica
Dominicana (“FAD”), the Dominican Republic’s air force. Embraer employees negotiated
directly with representatives from the Dominican armed forces, including a now retired
Dominican air force colonel (“Dominican Official’’) who was a close associate to the then-
Secretary of the Armed Forces for the Dominican Republic. There was never a public bid or
tender for this contract.

17. During the relevant time period, the Dominican Official, who acted as the
government’s primary point of contact during the negotiations with Embraer, was a military or
government official of the Dominican Republic. Embraer employees internally referred to him
as the General Manager or Managing Director of the Project as early as May 2007. The
Dominican Official also held himself out as the “Director of Programs and Projects FAD,” and
was later appointed by special decree as the General Manager/Managing Director of Projects and
Programs to the Secretary of the Armed Forces of the Dominican Republic.

18. By mid-2008, many of the terms of the Super Tucano contract were negotiated.
However, the legislature of the government of the Dominican Republic still had to approve the
financing terms and the purchase agreement for this contract.

19. On or about August 25, 2008, just before the Dominican Senate Finance
Committee approved the project’s financing, the Dominican Official requested that Embraer pay
him a commission. The Dominican Official told at least one Embraer employee that he was
talking to a Dominican senator about “PLR$,” which was a reference to profit sharing. This

information was forwarded to a senior Embraer executive at the time.
20. Later emails to, from, or between the Dominican Official and Embraer employees

indicate that the Dominican Official proposed that three Dominican companies receive a
distribution of the commission that he requested. These entities had not rendered any services to
Embraer and were until then unknown to Embraer and its employees. In September 2008, a
senior Embraer sales executive agreed to pay the Dominican Official about 3.7% of the $96.4
million contract value, or approximately $3.52 million, to be distributed as follows:

a) “Dominican Agent A” ($100,000);

b) “Dominican Agent B” ($920,000); and,

c) “Dominican Agent C” ($2.5 million).

21. Embraer, through its employees, did not conduct adequate diligence on
Dominican Agents A, B, and C, and payments to these agents were not based on any legitimate
services these agents rendered to Embraer. The Dominican Official even questioned at least one
Embraer employee about whether Embraer would take seriously the information contained in the
consulting agreements because, as he explained, the executors of the agreements would not have
the sufficient background or knowledge to provide the information requested.

22. On or around September 16, 2008, the Dominican Senate approved the project’s
financing, a critical step in the approval process. Meanwhile, Embraer employees continued to
discuss how to handle the commissions that the Dominican Official requested. Embraer’s
internal policies and procedures permitted the use of third party agents for the sale of military
aircraft. However, Embraer’s legal department viewed consulting agreements that were signed
after the execution of a sales contract as “high risk.”

23. On September 17, 2008, a senior Embraer sales executive sent an email to another

senior Embraer executive in the Defense and Government Markets division requesting that he
ask a senior Embraer legal executive to “find a solution” for the consulting agreements the
Dominican Official submitted.

24. In December 2008, Embraer mailed official correspondence relating the sales
contract to the Dominican Official at his office located within the office of the Secretary for the
Armed Forces of the Dominican Republic. The government of the Dominican Republic
approved the sale and financing for eight Super Tucano aircraft on or around December 24,
2008.

25. On December 30, 2008, the Dominican Official was formally designated General
Manager/Managing Director of Projects and Programs to the Secretary of the Armed Forces by
special decree.

26. On January 9, 2009, Embraer publicly announced the sale of eight Super Tucano
aircraft to the government of the Dominican Republic for approximately $96.4 million. At this
time, however, Embraer had not yet remitted to the Dominican Official the commission that he
requested, for himself or on behalf of others, in part because some Embraer employees raised
questions about the sales commission and sought guidance from senior Embraer executives,
including employees in Embraer’s legal department, about how to proceed. Rather than
terminate the promise to pay the Dominican Official, senior executives at Embraer merely
instructed subordinates to find a solution that did not involve the legal department.

27. On April 24, 2009, Embraer RL wired $100,000 from its Citibank account in New
York, New York to a bank account in the Dominican Republic belonging to Dominican Agent A.
An Embraer contract manager authorized the $100,000 payment because the amount remitted
was within his discretionary financial amount (up to $100,000) according to the Company’s

policies and procedures and did not require further approval from the legal department. As of
the time of this payment, Embraer had not executed a formal, written consulting agreement with
Dominican Agent A.

28. The $100,000 from Embraer RL to Dominican Agent A was recorded at Embraer
RL as “Consulting Fees” and consolidated at the parent level under Operating Income (Expense)
as a “Selling Expense,” specifically, “Commercialization Expense.”

29. Thereafter, a senior Embraer sales executive and others met with at least one
senior Embraer legal executive to find a solution amid growing pressure from the Dominican
Official and general discontent from other officials in the government of the Dominican
Republic. At the time, Company emails indicate that a senior Embraer legal executive suggested
to other employees that they use a fourth agent, “Dominican Agent D,” as a means to make the
payments the Dominican Official requested or otherwise “complete the loop.”

30. On or around February 3, 2010, a senior Embraer manager indicated in an internal
email that a senior Embraer legal executive was in favor of using a consulting agreement with
Dominican Agent D as a conduit to remit the remaining sum owed to the Dominican Official. At
or about this time, a senior Embraer sales executive, Dominican Agent D, and the Dominican
Official exchanged several emails discussing the roles each would play in resolving the matter.
These emails described the Dominican Official as the interface between two groups in the
Dominican Republic involved in obtaining the Super Tucano contract. Dominican Agent D was
described as the “bridge” between Embraer and the Dominican Official.

31. As aresult, Embraer decided to funnel the bribe payments to the Dominican
Official by entering into a consulting agreement with Dominican Agent D. On March 12, 2010,
Embraer RL and Dominican Agent D executed a consulting agreement to promote the sale of

Embraer aircraft in Jordan. Embraer RL agreed to pay Dominican Agent D 8% of the total value
ano Q ot oP
aXe ow Ali Gig

of any contract obtained in Jordan as a commission for services. In addition, Dominican Agent
D’s consulting agreement required Embraer RL to remit an advance lump sum payment of $3.42
million (the outstanding amount promised to the Dominican Official). A contract to sell aircraft
in Jordan was never awarded to Embraer, and therefore paying Dominican Agent D an advance
lump sum payment of $3.42 million was a way to pay the Dominican Official while
camouflaging in Embraer’s books and records that it involved a contract in the Dominican
Republic. A senior Embraer legal executive at the time signed Dominican Agent D’s agreement
on behalf of Embraer RL.

32. On April 6, 2010, Dominican Agent D delivered to Embraer RL (c/o Embraer in
Brazil) two false invoices, one for $920,000 and the other for $2.5 million. The invoices stated
that the amount owed for each invoice was for sales promotion services rendered under the
contract to promote sales in Jordan. The internal Embraer memorandum dated April 22, 2010,
however, indicated that the lump sum payments were related to the Super Tucano aircraft sold to
the government of the Dominican Republic. Dominican Agent D never sold any aircraft in
Jordan on behalf of Embraer pursuant to the March 12, 2010, consulting agreement. Dominican
Agent D did not render any legitimate services to Embraer relating to the sale of Super Tucano

aircraft in the Dominican Republic.
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 10 of 22

33. On May 24, 2010, Embraer RL wired $2.5 million from its New York bank
account to a bank account in Uruguay belonging to Dominican Agent D. On June 25, 2010,
Embraer RL also wired $920,000 from its New York bank account to a bank account in Uruguay
belonging to Dominican Agent D. These payments bore no relation to any legitimate services
rendered to Embraer and were intended to pay bribes to at least one government official in the
Dominican Republic.

34. Embraer mischaracterized the bribe payments as legitimate expenses in its books
and records. Embraer RL recorded the $3.42 million paid to Dominican Agent D as “Sales
Commission.” The payments from Embraer RL to Dominican Agent D were consolidated into
Embraer’s financial statements and booked under Operating Income (Expense) as a “Selling
Expense,” specifically, “Commercialization Expense.” As a result, Embraer did not, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its payments to Dominican Agent D in its books
and records.

35. Embraer used interstate commerce to carry out the scheme. Embraer RL wired
the bribe payments from its New York bank account. In addition, at least one email in
furtherance of the scheme passed through U.S. servers. For example, on or around October 21,
2010, the Dominican Official sent an email from a server located in the U.S. to Dominican Agent
D with further payment instructions. Specifically, the Dominican Official instructed Dominican
Agent D to wire the funds Embraer RL remitted to Dominican Agent D to a nominee account
located in Panama for further credit to a company domiciled in the Dominican Republic and a
bank account held in the Dominican Republic.

B. Embraer’s Illegal Payments in Saudi Arabia

36. From November 2009 through February 2011, Embraer, through its employees

10
and agents, agreed to pay, and did pay, an official of the government of Saudi Arabia to obtain a
contract for the sale of private jets valued at approximately $93 million.

37. In or around 2007, Embraer learned that a Saudi Arabian state-owned enterprise
was interested in purchasing three used executive jets to replace some of its aging aircraft.
Employees of this Saudi state-owned enterprise are “foreign officials” as the term is defined in
the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1(M()(A).

38. In November 2009, an executive of the Saudi state-owned enterprise (“Saudi
Arabia Official’) told a then-senior Embraer executive in the Executive Jets division that he
could convince the Saudi state-owned enterprise to purchase three new executive jets from
Embraer in exchange for an agent agreement that would pay the Saudi Arabia Official a
commission based on that sale. The sale of these aircraft to the Saudi state-owned enterprise did
not involve a public tender or bid.

39. In December 2009, a then-senior Embraer executive in the Executive Jets division
met with the Saudi Arabia Official to negotiate the terms of the Saudi Arabia Official’s
compensation, despite knowing that the Saudi Arabia Official was an employee at the Saudi
state-owned enterprise. The senior Embraer executive and the Saudi Arabia Official agreed to a
commission of $550,000 per aircraft sold to the Saudi state-owned enterprise, or a total
compensation of $1.65 million.

AO. During the relevant time period, other senior Embraer executives were informed
of the negotiations with the Saudi Arabia Official and approved the compensation for the Saudi
Arabia Official. Company emails to, from, or between these Embraer employees indicate that
the Saudi Arabia Official requested an agent agreement, rejected an initial offer of $200,000 per

aircraft as commissions, and demanded a higher commission given the total value of the contract

11
(about $90 million) and the additional lobbying the Saudi Arabia Official would have to do in
order to influence others at the Saudi state-owned enterprise to facilitate the sale of three new
executive jets.

41. By December 17, 2009, senior Embraer executives approved a proposal to pay the
Saudi Arabia Official $550,000 for each aircraft sold to the Saudi state-owned enterprise.

42. A then-senior Embraer executive arranged to have the bribes intended for the
Saudi Arabia Official flow through a South African company whose principal the employee
knew personally. Using the South African company as a conduit also allowed Embraer’s
employees involved in this scheme to circumvent two internal controls at Embraer: the
prohibitions at Embraer against a) making payments to third parties at bank accounts located in
jurisdictions the Company considered tax havens, and b) making payments directly to individual
employees of a customer.

43. On February 26, 2010, Embraer executives, including the same senior legal
executive who was involved in the Dominican Republic bribery scheme, approved the selection
of the South African company as the agent in the transaction with the Saudi state-owned
enterprise. On March 5, 2010, Embraer RL executed a consulting agreement with the South
African company, and the senior Embraer legal executive signed it on behalf of Embraer RL.
There was no business justification for using the South African company as an agent given its
lack of qualifications.

44. In May 2010, Embraer finalized the purchase agreement with the Saudi state-
owned enterprise’s U.S.-based subsidiary for the purchase of three new E170s (70-passenger
executive aircraft) valued at approximately $93 million.

45. On December 12, 2010, after the aircraft were delivered to the Saudi state-owned

12
enterprise, the South African company used as the conduit for the bribes to the Saudi Arabia
Official submitted three false invoices for $550,000 each to Embraer RL. These invoices were
false because the South African company did not render to Embraer any legitimate services in
Saudi Arabia or elsewhere.

46. On December 22, 2010, Embraer RL wired $550,000 from its New York bank
account to a bank account held in the name of the South African company. On February 18,
2011, Embraer RL wired $1,100,000 from its New York bank account to a bank account held in
the name of the South African company. These payments bore no relation to any legitimate
services rendered in Saudi Arabia and were intended to pay bribes to foreign government
officials.

47. Embraer RL mischaracterized the payments to the South African company in its
books and records as “Sales Commission.” The payments from Embraer RL to the South
African company were consolidated at the parent level under Operating Income (Expense) as a
‘Selling Expense,” specifically, “Commercialization Expense — Sales Commission.” As a result,
Embraer did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its payments to the South
African company in its books and records.

48. The South African company was nothing more than a conduit for the bribes
Embraer paid to employees of the Saudi state-owned enterprise. On February 2, 2011, the South
African company wired $500,000 to a bank account located in Geneva, Switzerland. On March
8, 2011, and April 5, 2011, the South African company wired $500,000 and $434,100,
respectively, to a bank account located in Saudi Arabia. These bank accounts were held in the
name of the father of an employee of Saudi state-owned enterprise who was a close associate of

the Saudi Arabia Official. The stated purpose for these three outgoing wire transfers was “agent

13
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 14 of 22

fee” or “commission and consulting” relating to Embraer’s sale of aircraft to the Saudi state-
owned enterprise.

C. Embraer’s Illegal Payments in Mozambique

49. From approximately May 2008 through at least September 2009, Embraer,
through its employees and agents, paid a consultant with ties to officials in the government of
Mozambique to obtain a contract valued at approximately $65 million.

50. In or around May 2008 through at least September 2008, Embraer negotiated the
sale of two commercial aircraft to a state-owned commercial airline in Mozambique
(“Mozambican state-owned enterprise”). Employees of the Mozambican state-owned enterprise
are “foreign officials” as the term is defined in the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1(f)()(A).

51. Embraer, through its subsidiary and employees, submitted a formal proposal to
the Mozambican state-owned enterprise on or around May 21, 2008, for the sale of two aircraft
with certain options for approximately $65 million. Embraer employees and the Mozambican
state-owned enterprise’s officials continued negotiations through September 2008.

52. On or around August 13, 2008, about one month before the purchase agreement
with the Mozambican state-owned enterprise was signed, a Mozambique national (the
“Mozambican Agent’) told at least one senior Embraer employee that Embraer should make a
“gesture” to unidentified officials in the government of Mozambique when delivering the first
aircraft. The Embraer employees involved with the Mozambican state-owned enterprise
negotiations believed the Mozambican Agent to be well connected with officials in the
government of Mozambique.

53. The Mozambican Agent did not have any legitimate role in the ongoing

Mozambican state-owned enterprise negotiations. Instead, he appeared to be acting as a

14
middleman or agent for the government officials involved in the deal, and Embraer employees
believed they needed to pay the Mozambican Agent in order to win the contract.

54. Senior executives at Embraer approved an offer to the Mozambican Agent of
between $50,000 and $80,000 per aircraft sold to the Mozambican state-owned enterprise even
though the Mozambican Agent had not rendered any legitimate services to Embraer during the
negotiations with the Mozambican state-owned enterprise. It became clear to Embraer
employees that Embraer’s “gesture” was too low. Less than two weeks later, on or around
August 25, 2008, the Mozambican state-owned enterprise’s then chief executive officer, a
foreign government official at the time as that term is defined by the FCPA (the “Mozambican
Official’), called an Embraer sales employee and suggested that a $1 million “gesture” to the
Mozambican Agent would be appropriate, but that Embraer could “get away’ with paying only
$800,000. The Mozambican Official also threatened to torpedo the ongoing negotiations with
Embraer by giving a competing bid priority over Embraer’s bid.

55. On or around September 15, 2008, Embraer and the Mozambican state-owned
enterprise executed the purchase agreement for the sale of two E190 aircraft for approximately
$65 million. The Mozambican Official was one of three Mozambican state-owned enterprise
executives who signed the purchase agreement on behalf of the Mozambican state-owned
enterprise.

56. On or around April 22, 2009, Embraer’s U.S.-based subsidiary, Embraer RL,
executed a consulting agreement with a company based in the Democratic Republic of SAo Tomé
and Principe that the Mozambican Agent controlled and which had only been incorporated in or
about November 2008 (the “Mozambican Consultant’). The agreement authorized the

Mozambican Consultant, among other things, to promote sales of the E190 “solely and

15
specifically” to the Mozambican state-owned enterprise even though the sale of such aircraft had
been completed seven months prior to the execution of this agreement and the Mozambican
Consultant had not even been formed at the time the Mozambican state-owned enterprise
purchase agreement was signed. The agreement with the Mozambican Consultant stated the
Mozambican Consultant’s promotion efforts began in or about March 2008.

57. Pursuant to the consultant agreement with the Mozambican Consultant, Embraer
RL agreed to pay $400,000 per aircraft, or $800,000 (the amount the Mozambican Official had
previously indicated to at least one Embraer employee was appropriate). There is no evidence
that the Mozambican Agent or the Mozambican Consultant rendered any legitimate services to
Embraer in Mozambique. Two senior Embraer executives signed the agreement on behalf of
Embraer RL, including a senior Embraer legal executive and an executive vice president. The
Mozambican Agent who had initially proposed the bribe payment as a “gesture” signed the
consulting agreement on behalf of the Mozambican Consultant.

58. Embraer delivered the aircraft to the Mozambican state-owned enterprise on or
around July 30, 2009, and September 2, 2009. The Mozambican Consultant submitted two
invoices addressed to Embraer RL dated August 15, 2009, and September 24, 2009, respectively,
each for $400,000. These invoices were false invoices because the Mozambican Consultant did
not render to Embraer any legitimate services in Mozambique or elsewhere. An Embraer
executive signed and approved both invoices for payment.

59. On August 31, 2009, Embraer RL wired $400,000 from its U.S.-based Citibank
account to a bank account in Portugal in the name of the Mozambican Consultant. Embraer RL
again wired $400,000 from its Citibank bank account to the Mozambican Consultant’s Portugal

bank account on October 2, 2009. These payments bore no relation to any legitimate services

16
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 17 of 22

rendered in Mozambique and were bribes to foreign government officials.

60. Embraer RL mischaracterized these payments as “Sales Commission” in its books
and records. The payments from Embraer RL to the Mozambican Consultant were consolidated
at the parent level under Operating Income (Expense) as a “Selling” expense, specifically, “Sales
Commission.”

D. Embraer’s Accounting Scheme in India

61. On July 3, 2008, Embraer executed a contract to develop three highly-specialized
military aircraft for the Indian Air Force for approximately $208 million. As in the Dominican
Republic, Saudi Arabia, and Mozambique transactions, Embraer paid an Indian national (“the
Indian Consultant’), who assisted Embraer obtain this defense contract, through an intermediary
in order to conceal the true nature of the payments, which were in violation of Indian law.

62. Embraer’s employees understood that India prohibited the use of commercial
agents for military sales. For that reason, in January 2005 Embraer executed a consulting
agreement with a company domiciled in the UK (the “UK Entity’), which had a relationship with
the Indian Consultant. Even though the Indian Consultant was not mentioned in this consulting
agreement, internal emails indicate that employees at Embraer knew that this entity was affiliated
with the Indian Consultant.

63. The executed agreement was stored in a safe deposit box in London that could
only be opened by the simultaneous use of a key maintained by Embraer’s legal department and
a card key in the possession of a representative of the UK Entity. Less than a month after
executing this agreement, on February 8, 2005, Embraer announced that it had signed a
memorandum of understanding with India’s Defence, Research and Development Organisation

(“DRDO”).

17
64. Embraer’s agreement with the UK Entity had expired by the time Embraer
executed the purchase agreement with India’s DRDO in July 2008, but the Indian Consultant,
through counsel, claimed a commission related to that contract. From February 2009 through
July 2009, Embraer negotiated, and ultimately approved, a $5.76 settlement with the Indian
Consultant. On November 21, 2009, Embraer’s wholly-owned Swiss subsidiary, Embraer AG,
through senior Embraer executives, executed a consulting agreement with a company domiciled
in Singapore (the “Singapore Entity’’).

65. Pursuant to that agreement, Embraer AG authorized the Singapore Entity to
promote the sale of two Embraer aircraft to an unrelated customer in Austria, which was a way to
conceal that the consulting services were in fact for the Indian Consultant’s work in India.
Embraer AG further agreed to pay the Singapore Entity a commission of $2.88 million per
aircraft (or $5.76 million in total, the amount Embraer agreed to pay the Indian Consultant) in
exchange for vaguely-described marketing services.

66. On January 5, 2010, January 19, 2010, and February 4, 2010, Embraer AG
transferred $1.920 million (or $5.76 million in total) from its Swiss-based investment account to
the Singapore Entity’s bank account in Singapore.

67. Embraer, through Embraer RL’s bank account in New York, transferred to
Embraer AG’s account the funds ultimately remitted to the Singapore Entity. Embraer AG’s
payments to the Singapore Entity were recorded and the accounting entries for these transactions
indicate that the payments to the Singapore Entity were made “on behalf of Embraer RL.” The
intercompany transfers from Embraer RL to Embraer AG impacted Embraer’s “Accounts
Receivable — Intercompany” and “Operating Income — Intercompany” accounts. The payments

to the Singapore Entity were consolidated at the parent level under Operating Income (Expense)

18
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 19 of 22

and mischaracterized as a “Selling Expense,” specifically, under “Commercialization Expense.”

68. The payments to the Singapore Entity were a way for Embraer to pay the Indian
Consultant, and to conceal in its books and records that it was paying for consulting work in
India. As a result, Embraer did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its
payments to the Singapore Entity in its books and records.

E. Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

69. Embraer failed to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls. During the relevant time period, Embraer’s policies, procedures, or controls required
that all commitments above a certain sum with third parties have a formal, written contract.
However, Embraer did not enter into a written contract with the Dominican Official, the Saudi
Arabian Official, the Mozambican Official, or the Indian Agent even though these individuals
were the intended beneficiaries of the payments referred to in this complaint. Similarly,
Embraer’s code of ethics and internal company directives required due diligence on sales
representatives or agents, such as checking corporate documentation and publicly available
information, gathering evidence of access to the customer or market, and inquiring whether the
representative or agent was recommended by government officials. In each of the schemes
described in this Complaint, the bribes and improper payments involved were transacted through
third parties. Critical steps that Embraer’s internal process at the time required, such as checking
publicly available information about the third parties’ access to customers or relevant markets,
were either ignored or circumvented. The information obtained, had these steps been taken,
would have alerted Embraer employees that some or all of the agents identified in this Complaint
lacked any experience or expertise in the aviation industry or access to the relevant markets in

question.

19
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 20 of 22

70. Lastly, Embraer’s legal department was responsible for approving the consultants
its senior legal executive engaged on behalf of ERL. As a result, senior Embraer executives in
Brazil, including a senior legal executive at the time, at least two other senior Embraer
executives, and several Embraer managers, circumvented the Company’s internal accounting
controls by, among other things, approving the engagement of third parties through sham
contracts to act as conduits for bribes to foreign officials, and concealing bribe payments as
legitimate expenses under contracts obtained in countries that bore no relation to any legitimate
services rendered and that were intended largely to pay bribes to foreign government officials.

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act

71. Paragraphs | through 70 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

72. As described above, Embraer, through its officers, directors, employees, or agents
corruptly offered, promised to pay, or authorized unlawful payments to one or more persons,
while knowing that all or a portion of those payments would be offered, given, or promised,
directly or indirectly, to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing their acts or decisions in
their official capacity, inducing them to do or omit to do actions in violation of their lawful
duties, securing an improper advantage, or inducing such foreign officials to use their influence
with a foreign government or instrumentality thereof to assist Embraer in obtaining or retaining
business.

73. By reason of the foregoing, Embraer violated the anti-bribery provisions of the

FCPA, as codified at Section 30A of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1].

20
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 21 of 22

SECOND CLAIM
Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act

74. Paragraphs | through 70 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

75. As described above, Embraer, through its officers, agents, subsidiaries, and
affiliates, failed to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets.

76. By reason of the foregoing, Embraer violated the books-and-records provisions of
the FCPA, as codified at Section 13(b)(2)(A) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)].

THIRD CLAIM
Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act

77. Paragraphs | through 70 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

78. As described above, Embraer, through its officers, directors, employees, or agents
acting on its behalf, failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls
sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (1) payments were made in accordance with
management’s general or specific authorization; and (11) payments were recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for
its assets.

79. By reason of the foregoing, Embraer violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].

PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a judgment:

A. Permanently enjoining Embraer from violating Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and

21
Case 0:16-cv-62501-XXXX Document 1 Entered on FLSD Docket 10/24/2016 Page 22 of 22

13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1; 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)]; and

B. Ordering Embraer to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment interest,
wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct.

C. Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

D. Further, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court retain jurisdiction
over this action in order to implement and carry out the terms of all orders and decrees that it
may enter, or to entertain any suitable application or motion by the Commission for additional
relief within the jurisdiction of this Court.

Dated: October 24, 2016 Respectfully submitted,
s/Andrew O. Schiff
Andrew O. Schiff
Regional Trial Counsel
S.D. Fla. No. A5501900

Direct Dial: (305) 982-6390
E-mail: schiffa@sec.gov

 

s/Ernesto Palacios

Ernesto Palacios

Senior Counsel, FCPA Unit
Florida Bar No. 0529168
Direct Dial: (305) 982-6306
E-mail: palaciose @sec.gov

 

Attorneys for Plaintiff
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800
Miami, Florida 33131

Telephone: (305) 982-6300
Facsimile: (305) 536-4154

Of Counsel:

Thierry Olivier Desmet

Assistant Director, FCPA Unit

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800

Miami, Florida 33131

22
