2020-BCFP-0003 Document’ Filed 06/02/2020 Page 1 of 38

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP- 0003

 

In the Matter of:

Main Street Personal Finance, Inc., ACAC,
Inc. d/b/a Approved Cash Advance, and Quik
Lend, Inc. CONSENT ORDER

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has reviewed the lending practices
of payday and installment-loan lender Main Street Personal Finance, Inc. (Main Street);
ACAC, Inc. (ACAC), which conducts business under the name Approved Cash Advance;
and Quik Lend, Inc. (Quik Lend) (collectively, Respondents). The Bureau has identified
violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. 88 5531,
5536(a)(1)(B), the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 8§ 1601-1666] (TILA), and TILA’s
implementing regulation, Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. Pt. 1026. Under 8§ 1053 and 1055 of
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 88 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent

Order).
Jurisdiction

1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the

CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 88 5563, 5565, and § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12 U.S.C.

§ 1607.
II
Stipulation
2. Respondents have executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a

Consent Order,” dated May 15, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated by
reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondents have
consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under 8§ 1053 and
1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §8 5563, 5565, without admitting or denying any of
the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that Respondents admit the facts
necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject

matter of this action.

III
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

3. “Affected Title Consumers” means the approximately 4,129 Mississippi
consumers (representing approximately 6,524 loans) who, from October 1, 2016
to the Effective Date, received an auto-title pledge from Respondents that

contained a 30-day single-payment TILA disclosure and at closing also received a
separate document entitled “Amortization Schedule” showing payments over a
10-month period.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.

“Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the Southeast Region for the
Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or
her delegate.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of one or more
consumers or an enforcement action by another governmental agency brought
against Respondents based on substantially the same facts as described in
Section IV of this Consent Order.

“Respondents” means Main Street, ACAC and Quik Lend, their subsidiaries,

successors and assigns.

IV
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

8.

10.

Respondents own and operate 156 stores in eight states (Alabama, Louisiana,
Michigan, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia).
Main Street is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in
Cleveland, Tennessee. Main Street operates storefront lending operations
through subsidiaries.

Respondent ACAC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Main Street and is also
headquartered in Cleveland, Tennessee. It does business under the names

“Approved Cash Advance” and “Quik Lend.” It offers payday loans, title loans,
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

and check cashing in retail centers in Alabama, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi,
Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia.

Respondent Quik Lend is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Main Street and is also
headquartered in Cleveland, Tennessee. It offers payday loans and title loans to
consumers. Quik Lend operates in retail centers in Mississippi and Tennessee.
Respondents share the same management, Board of Directors, headquarters, and
office space. In addition, ACAC and Quik Lend channel revenue to Main Street.
Respondents, through the operating entities, provide, service, and collect on
payday, title, and installment loans offered to consumers primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes. These are “consumer financial product[s] or
service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (15)(A)(i).

Respondents are covered persons under the CFPA because they make, service,
and collect upon consumer loans. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6), (15)(A)(), (15) (A) (x).
Respondents are “creditors” under TILA and Regulation Z because they regularly
extend credit for personal, family, or household purposes that is subject to a
finance charge and is initially payable to them. 15 U.S.C. § 1602(g); 12 C.F.R. §
1026.2(a)(17).

The auto-title pledge loans offered by Respondents in Mississippi constitute
closed-end credit. 12 C.F.R § 1026.2(a)(10).

Respondents have operated as a common enterprise that shares common
ownership, management, Board of Directors, addresses, headquarters, office

space, and employees, and commingles funds.
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23,

Respondents have operated asa common enterprise while engaging in the
conduct described herein.
Because Respondents have operated as a common enterprise, each of them is

jointly and severally liable for the acts or practices alleged.

Respondents’ Mississippi Auto-Title Pledge Product and Disclosures

Respondents offer auto-title loans to consumers in their Mississippi stores, which
are regulated under the Mississippi Title Pledge Act. Miss. Code Ann. §§ 75-67-
401 et seq.

Under Mississippi law, auto-title loans must be structured asa single-payment
transaction with a 30-day maturity date.

Mississippi law permits the parties to agree in writing to subsequent extensions
at 30-day intervals if the lender reduces the principal amount used to calculate
the finance charges by at least 10% of the original amount at each 30-day
extension. The full principal amount itself is still owed, but the finance charges
on that amount must be reduced.

Between October 2016 and August 2018, Respondents offered auto-title loans
which disclosed the finance charges, pursuant to TILA, based on a single-
payment transaction with a 30-day maturity date. Respondents also provided
consumers with a separate document entitled the “Amortization Schedule.” The
total of payments disclosed under TILA was substantially less than the amount
consumers would pay if they paid according to the 10-month Amortization
Schedule, and it was substantially less than the amount actually paid by most of

Respondents’ consumers. Most consumers paid on their auto-title pledge
24.

25.

26.

27,

28.

transactions for longer than the 30-day period set forth in the TILA disclosures,
and thus paid more than the disclosed finance charge.

Respondents presented the Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form containing
the 30-day finance charge and the Amortization Schedule showing 10 monthly
payments together to consumers.

Consumers were required to sign the Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form,
which contained the principal amount of the loan and the “title pledge service
charge” for a single-payment transaction. These same terms were included in the
TILA disclosure asthe Amount Financed and the Finance Charge.

Respondents also required consumers to sign the Amortization Schedule. This
was the presumptive payment schedule for consumers under the contract.

A consumer who paid the 10 equal payments reflected on the Amortization
Schedule would ultimately pay significantly higher finance charges than the
finance charge that appeared in the TILA disclosure section of the Title Pledge
Agreement Transaction Form.

For example, on April 24, 2018, Respondents made a $500 loan to a consumer.
The Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form listed the amount financed as
$500, the finance charge as $119.50, and the total amount the consumer would
have paid after making all scheduled payments as $619.50. The number of
payments was listed as “1” and the due date listed as May 24, 2018, 30 days later.
The APR was listed as 290.78%. The consumer was required to sign this form. An
example of the Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form is provided below as

Exhibit A.
29.

30.

31,

32,

33:

34.

The consumer’s total payments under the Amortization Schedule would be
$1,157.20, far more than the $619.50 disclosed in the TILA disclosure section of
the Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form. An example of the Amortization
Schedule is provided below as Exhibit B.
Instead of paying $119.50 in finance charges as disclosed, the consumer would
have paid $657.20 in finance charges, the total of the monthly “fee” column in
this schedule when the consumer made payments in the scheduled amount each
month and did not redeem her title earlier.
Respondents’ contracts and disclosures did not plainly indicate to consumers that
the finance charge and total amount paid under the 10-month Amortization
Schedule would be higher than those paid under the single-payment schedule.
From October 2016 through August 2018, Respondents provided documents
containing inaccurate TILA disclosures to their Mississippi title-loan consumers.
Misrepresentations of Finance Charges in Violation of the CFPA
Section 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits deceptive acts or practices. 12 U.S.C.
§ 5536(a)(1)(B).
As described in Paragraphs 20 to 32, when originating auto-title pledges in
Mississippi, Respondents disclosed to consumers, in the Title Pledge Transaction
Agreement Form, finance charges substantially lower than the consumers would
incur for their auto-title loans if they repaid them according to the Amortization

Schedules that Respondents also provided.
35:

36.

37:

38.

39.

4O.

41.

Respondents’ representations regarding finance charges were material because
they relate to the cost of the loan and would therefore likely affect the consumers’
conduct or decision regarding the loan.
Respondents’ representations were likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably
under the circumstances. Consumers acting reasonably likely would not
understand that the Finance Charge and Total of Payments disclosed in the Title
Loan Agreement did not actually represent the amounts they would pay if they
paid according to the Amortization Schedule.
Respondents’ representations set forth above were false or misleading and
constitute deceptive acts or practices in violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5531,
5536(a)(1)(B).

Understating of Finance Charges in Violation of TILA
Regulation Z implements TILA, 15 U.S.C. §8 1601—1666f, and is intended, among
other things, “to promote the informed use of consumer credit by requiring
disclosures about its terms and cost.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.1.
Disclosures required by Regulation Z must be made “clearly and conspicuously”
in writing and must reflect “the terms of the legal obligation between the parties.”
12 C.F.R. § 1026.17(a)(1), (c)(1).
Among other things, a creditor must disclose the “finance charge” in a closed-end
credit transaction pursuant to TILA and Regulation Z. 15 U.S.C. 88 1631(b),
1638(a)(3); 12 C.F.R. § 1026.18(d).
Regulation Z defines “finance charge” as “the cost of consumer credit asa dollar

amount.” The finance charge “includes any charge payable directly or indirectly
42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

by the consumer and imposed directly or indirectly by the creditor as an incident
to or a condition of the extension of credit.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.4(a).

As described in Paragraphs 20 to 32 Respondents understated the finance charge
in its Mississippi auto-title pledge transactions. Respondents’ failure to disclose a
finance charge that reflected the terms of the legal obligation between the parties,
which the Bureau found to be the Amortization Schedule, to a credit transaction
violated TILA and Regulation Z. 15 U.S.C. 88 1631(b), 1638(a)(3); 12 C.F.R.

§§ 1026.17(c)(1), 1026.18(d).

Respondents’ Failure to Refund Consumers’ Credit Balances
Between October 2014 and November 2015, consumers sometimes made
overpayments to Respondents — that is, they may have inadvertently paid
Respondents more than they owed.

When they received overpayments from consumers, Respondents in many
instances retained them without contacting the consumers or issuing refunds for
extended periods, sometimes more than six months and in certain instances for
years.

While Respondents began refunding consumers these amounts in November

2015, they did not complete that process until November 2017.

Violations of the CFPA Related to Failure to Refund Credit Balances

An act or practice is unfair under the CFPA if it causes or is likely to cause
substantial injury to consumers, if the injury is not reasonably avoidable, and if
the injury is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or to

competition. 12 U.S.C. § 5531(c).
47.

A8.

49.

50.

51.

52.

ARAN ALAS AMAA PN oe a mt RIAA Ie ms. aN RES
POP ORE RELAIS Poacienent 4 Fiulad O86 f/OGfeReo Rane To of Rs
tn te Med SNS et RPA TAS Pd Sobek Mah Bat BAF EAS : ? ‘ Nat? ‘

Respondents injured consumers by keeping hundreds of consumers’
overpayments, ranging from a few dollars to more than $500.

These injuries were not reasonably avoidable. Consumers were unaware that
Respondents would retain overpayments and most likely were unaware that they
had a credit balance with Respondents.

Finally, the injury is not outweighed by any countervailing benefits to consumers
or to competition. Respondents’ failure to refund consumers provided no benefit
to consumers or to competition.

Respondents’ failure to refund consumers credit balances was unfair, in violation
of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. 88 5531, 5536(a)(1)(B).

Violations of TILA Related to Failure to Refund Credit Balances

TILA and Regulation Z require that, when a credit balance in excess of $1 is
created on a credit account, the creditor must “[m Jake a good faith effort to
refund the consumer. .. any part of the credit balance remaining in the account
for more than 6 months.” 12 C.F.R. 81026.21(c).

Respondents’ failure to refund consumers’ credit balances in excess of $1 that had
been outstanding for more than six monthsis a violation of TILA and Regulation

Z. 12 C.F.R. 81026.21(c).

Respondents’ Collection Calls to Consumers’ Workplaces and to References

53:

From October 2016 through at least January 2017, Respondents routinely called
consumers at work or called their references in an attempt to collect debts.
Sometimes Respondents called consumers on shared lines, and in the process,

spoke with consumers’ co-workers or employers. When Respondents spoke with
54.

55.
56.

o7:

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

AMAR RRR Aas Pe en aud A Pere At Pye RAO PP Pane Ao a
SPOOR CE BLAS Pinaciirpaent 4 Milan ORI renaen Rance tt af
Sai tee ot OMI RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS Mat Bad é $ : ? owe

these third-parties, Respondents disclosed or risked disclosing the existence of
consumers’ debt.

Respondents’ written company policy did not specifically limit calls to third
parties to circumstances where they could not reach the borrowers.

Respondents’ written policy permitted daily calls to workplaces and references.
In practice, Respondents’ often called consumers’ workplaces and references
twice daily.

Respondents’ supervisors instructed employees to keep calling workplaces and
references until they spoke to someone.

Respondents’ employees routinely called workplaces and references even when
they had accurate direct contact information for borrowers.

Respondents’ employees received written warnings from company supervisors
for not calling workplaces and references enough.

When calling third parties, Respondents’ employees in many instances disclosed
or risked disclosing the delinquency of consumers’ debts.

Respondents’ employees also routinely called third parties, including consumers’
workplaces and references, after they had been asked to stop calling these phone
numbers.

Respondents made numerous calls to workplaces when (a) Respondents knew or
should have known that such calls were prohibited or (b) Respondents knew or
should have known that the consumers, their colleagues, or employers had

previously requested that the calls to work cease.
62.

64.

65.

66.

ARAM RAE AMAA ~ a ot mE
SOOO BER AAS Mieerrsnmnat 4 Riad FS fae haan
Sew ke bg WAAL RARE EAD EE od POPSALS AFL It OOS

When calling workplaces, references or other third parties in its collection efforts,
Respondents’ employees in many instances disclosed or risked disclosing the
delinquency of consumers’ debts.
Consumers suffered or were likely to suffer harm asa result of these collection
callpractices, including humiliation, reputational damage, and negative
consequences at work.

Violations of the CFPA Related to Collection Calls
Respondents’ repeated calls to third parties have caused and were likely to cause
consumers substantial injury, including humiliation, inconvenience, and
reputational damage ranging from unwanted attention, to disclosure of their
delinquent debt to references or colleagues, to disciplinary action and other
negative employment consequences at work.
Consumers could not reasonably avoid the harm because they did not know
whether, when, or how these calls might occur and had no control over
Respondents’ use of these collection tactics. In numerous instances, Respondents
continued to call consumers references and at work even after consumers,
references, or their employers asked Respondents to stop. This injury was not
outweighed by any countervailing benefits to consumers or competition.
Respondents’ repeated calls to consumers’ workplaces and references were made
without regard to whether Respondents could reach consumers directly and in
many instances after consumers had requested that Respondents cease

attempting to contact them.
67.

68.

2020-BCFP-0003 Document1 Filed 06/02/2020 Page 13 of 38

Respondents’ collection calling practices were unfair, in violation of the CFPA. 12

U.S.C. 8§ 5531, 5536(a)(1)(B).

ORDER

V
Conduct Provisions

IT IS ORDERED, under 8§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:

Respondents, and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, are

prohibited from:

da.

using or disclosing payment schedules for title pledges or loans that
contradict or obscure the finance charge or other terms of the obligation
between the parties;
in connection with marketing or offering consumer credit,
misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or
impliedly:

1. the fees charged for loan extensions;

2. the finance charge for loans; or

3. any other terms or conditions of credit;
failing to refund consumers with credit balances over $1 after six months;
placing a collection call to any person about an account after that person
has notified Respondents, orally or in writing, that the person wishes

Respondents to cease further contact with the person;
APNE OEE AMMAN
SOOO Berm AIS Megs ee
ene Te PO AA RAL bd

 

e. placing a collection call to a consumer’s workplace if the consumer has
asked Respondents not to, or if Respondents know, or has reason to know,
that such calls are prohibited by the employer; and

f. Except as permitted by state law, in connection with collecting or
attempting to collect a delinquent debt, disclosing the existence of sucha
debt to any employer, coworker, or third-party reference, unless the
consumer, after default, provided his or her documented, voluntary,
affirmative, and specific permission on an opt-in basis for the third-party
communication.

Respondents, and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, are

required to:

a. limit communications with third parties, in connection with collecting a
debt, to communications made for the purpose of obtaining a consumer’s
location information when unknown;

b. conduct training and oversight of all agents, employees, and service
providers that is reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the CFPA,
TILA, and Regulation Z, with training tailored to each individual's job
duties or other role. Respondents will conduct training at least once per
year, document their traming program, and review and update their
training program at least annually to ensure that it provides appropriate

individuals with the most relevant information;
70.

71.

ARAN FARR AMAA ~*~ a ot mE
SOOO BER AAS Mieerrsnmnat 4 Riad FS fae haan
Sai tee ot WAAL RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od SPA Vee Phot Bo

c. maintain policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to comply
with the CFPA, TILA, and Regulation Z, and that:

i. require Respondents to regularly monitor their records of incoming
and outgoing consumer telephone calls to ensure comphance with
applicable federal consumer financial laws; and

ii, implement an effective method of logging requests by consumers and
third parties not to be contacted about a particular consumer's account
and ensuring that those requests are honored.

VI
Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 60 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must submit to the Regional
Director for review and determination of non-objection, a comprehensive
compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondents’ payday and installment
lending complies with all applicable Federal consumer financial laws and the
terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The Compliance Plan must

include, ata minimum:

a. detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent Order;
and
b. specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.
The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of non-

objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondents to revise it. If the
72,

73:

74.

79+

AMA Breer AAAS Pen wun of Pe at PU PAS POAT Rana AE AE OD
POS O.R CEE OOS Pocument 7 Pilad O6/00/e 080 Pane Th of BB
Sao Te ONE st eh AER rd PoP Nat Ge Boe Sah hn SF : : Ra it

Regional Director directs Respondents to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondents must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to the
Regional Director within 30 days.

After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a determination
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondents must implement and
adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the

Compliance Plan.

VII
Role of the Board

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

The Board, or a committee thereof, must review all submissions required by this
Consent Order before submission to the Bureau.

Although this Consent Order requires Respondents to submit certain documents
for the review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the Board will have the
ultimate responsibility for proper and sound management of Respondents and
for ensuring that Respondents complies with Federal consumer financial law and
this Consent Order.

In each instance in which this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure

adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondents, the Board must:

a. authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondents to fully comply
with the Consent Order;
b. require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of

compliance obligations; and
76.

77°

78.

ARAN SUPE ANAS PN oe a enh ah PU NEL Pee a EAD
POS O.R CEE OOS Pocument 7 Pilad O6/00/e 080 Pace Ty of 3a
Sao Te ONE st eh AER rd PoP Nat Ge Boe Sah hn SF : : Ra it

C. require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any material
non-compliance with Board directives related to this Section.

VITlI
Order to Pay Redress

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

A judgment for equitable monetary relief is entered in favor of the Bureau and
against Respondents in the amount of $3,540,517.10, representing the total title
finance charges made directly or indirectly by Affected Title Consumers to
Respondents that exceeded the amount of the finance charges stated in the
required TILA disclosure box in the Mississippi auto-title pledge agreements
those consumers received (Total Excess Finance Charge Amount); however, full
payment of the Total Excess Finance Charge Amount will be suspended upon
satisfaction of the obligations in Paragraphs 77-78 and 85-86 and subject to
Section IX, of this Consent Order.

Based on financial statements and supporting documentation that Respondents
submitted to the Bureau and Respondents’ demonstrated inability to pay the
Total Excess Finance Charge Amount, Respondents are ordered to pay $2 million
toward the Total Excess Finance Charge Amount provided for in Paragraph 76.
This payment shall be made in accordance with the terms of Paragraph 78.
Within ten days of the Effective Date, Respondents shall pay to the Bureau, in the
form of a wire transfer to the Bureau, and in accordance with wiring instructions
provided by counsel for the Bureau, $2 million, as required by this section, for

the purpose of providing redress to the Affected Title Consumers.
79:

80.

81.

ARAN SUPE ANAS PN oe a enh ah PU NEL Pee mo A
POS O.R CEE OOS Pocument 7 Fidead G6/oefeoeo Pane 18 of
Bea ME ED eM at BaP AS SPEER Pkg grits Nat Bol é : 5 :

Any funds received by the Bureau in satisfaction of this judgment will be
deposited into a fund or funds administered by the Bureau or to the Bureau’s
agent according to applicable statutes and regulations to be used for redress for
Affected Title Consumers, including but not limited to refund of moneys,
restitution, damages or other monetary relief, and for any attendant expenses for
the administration of any such redress.

If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that redress to any Affected Title
Consumer is wholly or partially impracticable, or if funds remain after redress is
completed, the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the United States
Treasury as disgorgement. Respondents will have no right to challenge any
actions that the Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.
Payment of redress to any Affected Title Consumer under this Consent Order
may not be conditioned on that Affected Title Consumer waiving any right.

Ix

Effect of Misrepresentation or Omission Regarding Financial Condition

82.

82.

The Bureau’s agreement to issue this Consent Order is expressly premised on the
truthfulness, accuracy, and completeness of Respondents’ financial statements,
and additional supporting documents, including those submitted to the Bureau in
December 2019, January 2020, and February 2020, all of which Respondents
assert are truthful, accurate, and complete.

If the Bureau in its sole discretion determines that Respondents have failed to
disclose any material asset or that any of their financial statements contain any
material misrepresentation or omission, including materially misstating the value

of any asset, then the suspension of the monetary judgment ordered in Section
84.

85.

86.

87.

APA PPR AM AS PN en mand A Pre a PR FEN ER Ria ARN nh EOS
POCO. RCE RPLOOOS Pacumeant 4 Filed OS/O2 (e020 Bane 19 af BA
Bad ae MRP De OE et BHAA Ed york Rat io Boe Nah ee SP YO CARQNS OF GP Lar

VIII will be terminated, and the Bureau can seek to enforce in a United States
district court or in any court of competent jurisdiction of a state ina district in
which the Respondents are located or reside or are doing business, as
immediately due and payable the full judgment entered in Section VIII of this
Consent Order, less any amounts paid under Section VIII of this Consent Order.
After the reinstatement of the monetary judgment under this Section, the Bureau
will be entitled to interest on the judgment, computed from the date of entry of
this Consent Order, at the rate prescribed by 28 U.S.C. § 1961 on any outstanding

amounts not paid.

xX
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the violations of
law described in Section IV of this Consent Order and taking into account the
factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), including Respondents’ lack of financial
resources, Respondents must pay a civil money penalty of one dollar to the
Bureau.

Within ten days of the Effective Date, Respondents must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in compliance
with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in the

Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C.

§ 5497(d).
88.

89.

ARAN SUPE ANAS PN oe a enh ah PU NEL Pee ho MA EAS
POS O.R CEE OOS Pocument 7 Fidead G6/oefeoeo Rane OO of RA
Sa teed SNS et RPA TAS Pd Sobek Ma Ba MO eS : ? ‘ at ‘

Respondents, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under this
Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how the
Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondents may not:
a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this
Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondents may not argue that Respondents are entitled to,
nor may Respondents benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the civil
money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the Bureau
makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related Consumer Action
offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory monetary remedies
imposed against Respondents based on the civil money penalty paid in this action
or based on any payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund,
Respondents must, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting such offset
or reduction, notify the Bureau and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to
the United States Treasury. Such a payment will not be considered an additional
civil money penalty and will not change the amount of the civil money penalty

imposed in this action.
90.

Ql.

92.

93.

ARAA RAPER ANAS PN oe a enh ah PU NEL Pee he Md RE AG
POS O.R CEE OOS Pocument 7 Fidead G6/oefeoeo Roa Of af 28
SNP eI Pe ONLI at te AEN Ed PO oPyo Ae Rat io Boe Nah ee SP : : rok :

XI
Additional Monetary Provisions

In the event of any default on Respondents’ obligations to make payment under
this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, will accrue on any
outstanding amounts not paid from the date of default to the date of payment and
will immediately become due and payable.

Respondents must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid to
the fullest extent permitted by law, andno part of the funds may be returned to
Respondents.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondents, unless they have already done so, must
furnish to the Bureau all taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be used for
purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of this
Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement in a
Related Consumer Action, Respondents must notify the Regional Director of the
final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That notification must
indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondents paid or are required to
pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of consumers to whom

that redress has been or will be paid.

XIT

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
94.

95:

AMAR RRR Aas Pe en aud A Pere At Pye RAO PP Pn ew ae Las
POS O.R CEE OOS Pocument 7 Pilad O6/00/e 080 Pana 2? of BA
hn ad tan PR A EE OE et BA AEN Pa PO oPyo Ae Ma Ba MO eS : she fk it

Respondents must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution of a
subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices subject to this
Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by or
against Respondents; or a change in Respondents’ name or address. Respondents
must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days before the development,
but in any case, no later than 14 days after the development.

Within 90 days of receipt of a non-objection to the Compliance Plan and again

one year after the Effective Date, each Respondent must submit to the Regional

Director an accurate written compliance progress report (Compliance Report)

that has been approved by the Board, which, at a minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order
and describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondents have
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order; and

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondents have
complied with the Compliance Plan; and

C. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section

XIII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
96.

97.

98.

99.

APA POR AM AY ~ : of pansy SO EE ax
SOO DEM AAAS Pee. eyscard of CilaN AAAS FOO Rs es
ee eh beet Ome ew a et d S POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PRG STEN FE De get Pe df

Soe Ue oN RPA TAS Pd YESS at Bat é : y CAL

XITI
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must submit to the Regional
Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order, sworn under
penalty of perjury.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondents must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of their Board members and executive officers, as well as
to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.

For five years from the Effective Date, Respondents must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XII, any future Board members and executive officers, as
well asto any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.

Respondents must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of
a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures comply with
the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. 88 7001—7006, within 45 days of
delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent Order under this

Section.
100.

101.

102.

ARAM RAE AMAA ~~ a ot mE
SOO Beem AAS Miners t fF Riad FS fae haan
CITES WAAL BASLE EER PER Od YOPPEAS AAR Ii

XIV
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondents must create and retain all documents and records necessary to
demonstrate full compliance with each provision of this Consent Order, including
the names and last known mailing addresses of the Affected Title Consumers and
all submissions to the Bureau.

Respondent must make the documents identified In Paragraph 100 available to

the Bureau upon the Bureat’s request,

XV
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondents must provide all
submissions, requests, communications, or other documents relating to this
Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “In re Main Street Personal
Finance, Inc., et al., File No. 2020-BCFP-0003” and send them by overnight
courier or first-class mail to the below address and contemporaneously by email
to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

James Carley

Regional Director, Southeast Region

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552.
103.

104.

105.

106.

POPO-RCERPLONOS Paciument 7 Fuad O8/02/e020 Pane 2S af R&
Sa teed ONLI at te AEN Ed PO oPyo Ae Rat io Boe Nah ee SP : ? at ‘

Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondents must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity and
location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected Title Consumer.
Respondents must provide such information in their or their agents’ possession

or control within 14 days of receiving a written request from the Bureau.

XVII
Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondents must
submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-privileged
information related to requirements of this Consent Order, which must be made
under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to requirements of this
Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those requirements; or
produce non-privileged documents related to requirements of this Consent Order
and Respondents’ compliance with those requirements.

For purposes of this section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondents, unless Respondents retain counsel related to these
communications.

Respondents must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the

requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
107.

108.

109.

110.

111.

AR AA RAPER ANA PY ce et ety TENS eI mm ES
POO ORE BLOONS Racument 4 Fidead G6/oefeoeo Pane 6 af 38
SNP eI Pe ONLI at te AEN Ed PO oPyo Ae Rat io Boe Nah ee SP : : we :

requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondents who has
agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil

investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory process.

XVIII
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondents may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.

The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-material
requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and
changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good cause justifies
the modification. Any such modification by the Regional Director must be in

writing.

XIX
Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent the
Bureau, or any other person governmental agency, from taking any other action
against Respondents, except as described in Paragraph 111.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondents from all potential liability for

law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the practices
112.

113.

114.

115.

ARAN RAP ANAS PY ce et ety TENS eI TP RAG
POO ORE BLOONS Racument 4 Fidead G6/oefeoeo Pane OF af 88
SNP eI Pe ONLI at te AEN Ed PO oPyo Ae Rat io Boe Nah ee SP : : we :

described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such practices
occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about them as of the
Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in this Consent Order
in future enforcement actions against Respondents and their affiliates, including,
without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of violations or the
continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to calculate the amount of
any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect any right of the Bureau to
determine and ensure compliance with the Consent Order, or to seek penalties
for any violations of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final Consent
Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and expressly does not
form, and may not be construed to form, a contract binding the Bureau or the
United States.

This Consent Order will terminate five years from the Effective Date. This
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except to the
extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended, suspended,
waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated agent.
Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based on
calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondents seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that are
subject to this Consent Order, Respondents must, as a condition of sale, obtain
the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all applicable

provisions of this Consent Order.
116.

117.

118.

2020-BCFP-0003 Document1 Filed 06/02/2020 Page 28 of 38

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For any
violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum amount of
civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c). In
connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce this Consent Order in
federal district court, the Bureau may serve Respondents wherever Respondents
may be found and Respondents may not contest that court’s personal jurisdiction
over Respondents.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent Order
and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the accompanying
Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written communications, discussions, or
understandings.

Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondents, their Board, officers, or employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

x HX

TA q o
IT ISSO ORDERED, this fas] day of _! , 2020.

AG elec Marnsca

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

28
 

 

Exhibit A
Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form
Titie Pledge Transaction No._1339
Transaction:

 

ACAC, Inc. d/b/a Approved Cash
Advance

TI

Richland

STATE
MS

MS

Date of the 04/24/2018

 

DE
39218
PHOTO IDENTIFICATION

ISSUING AGENCY
SSN

PHONE;

WEIGHT

PHOTO IDENTIFICATION
TYPE

PHOTO IDENTIFICATION
#

CODE

PHOTO IDENTIFICATION
ISSUING AGENCY

WEIGHT

MODEL N NUMBER| LICENSE PLATE NUMBER

 

GOO MAKE

In this Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form (“Title Pledge Agreement”), the words “Title Pledge Transaction Form,” “Title Pledge
Agreement,” and “title loan” each means this signed agreement including the Jury Trial Waiver and Arbitration Clause. The words “you,”
“your,” “I,” “pledgor,” “co-pledgor,” “seller,” and “co-pledgor/seller” each means the Pledgor(s)/Seller(s) identified above and signing
below, to whom the property identified above is titled. The words “Certificate of Title, “‘ “Personal Property Certificate of Title,” “Titled
Personal Property, “Pledged Goods,” “the property,” and “Pledged Property” mean the Personal Property Certificate of Title that is
deposited with us in the course of our business and the Motor Vehicle listed above, as appropriate. The words “we,” “us,” “our,” “lender,”
“this lender,” and “title pledge lender” mean ACAC, Inc. d/b/a Approved Cash Advance a title pledge lender operating in accordance with the
Mississippi Title Pledge Act, Miss. Code Ann. § 75-67-40] and regulated by the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance.

FEDERAL TRUTH-IN-LENDING DISCLOSURES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amount Total of
ANNUAL FINANCE Financed Payments
PERCENTAGE CHARGE ne amount you will
. ave paid after you have
The amount of credit
RATE ; . rovided to you or on your made all payments as
The cost of your credit as a fj The dollar amount the credit behalf. scheduled.
290.78 % $119.50 $500.00 $619.50
Your payment schedule will be:
' Number of Payments | Amount of Payments | When Payments Are Due ]
1 | $619.50 | Thursday May 24 2018
Security: You are giving a security interest in the Pledged Goods.
Prepayment: If you pay off early, you will not be entitled to a refund of part of the finance charge.
* See your contract documents for any additional information about nonpayment, default, any required repayment in full before the
scheduled date, and prepayment refunds.

 

 

 

Itemization of Amount Financed of $ $500.00, Amount given to you directly: $ $500.00

Terms of Repayment and Title Pledge Service Charge. Under the terms of this Title Pledge Agreement you and we agree to this thirty-
day written Title Pledge Agreement whereby we agree to make a loan of $500.00 to you. In consideration thereof, you agree to

ive us and hereby grant to us a security interest in the unencumbered Titled Personal Property owned by you, identified above as ledged
Goods, You further agree we will keep possession of the Certificate of Title to the Pledged Goods. You and we agree you have the exclusive
right to redeem the Certificate of Title by (1) timely paying the total amount of —_ $619.50 which includes the $506.00 advanced to

ou and the title pledge service charge of __ $119.5 by 05/24/2018 aturity Date”) and (2} by complying with this Title
Pledge Agreement. The title pledge service charge is for investigating the title, appraising the Titled Personal Property to which the Pledged
Property relates, documenting and closing the transaction, making required reports to appropriate law enforcement officials, and for all of the
services provided. Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 75-67-413 you agree to timely pay to us, a title pledge service charge in lieu of interest or
other charges for all services, expenses, cost and losses of every nature. Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 75-67-413, you further agree such
title pledge service charge shall be deemed earned, due and owing as of the date of the title pledge transaction and a like sum (adjusted for the
mandatory principal reduction) shall be deemed earned, due and owing on the thirty-first day from the date of the transaction and on every
thirtieth day thereafter regardless of whether any extension or continuation occurs. We agree no accrued interest or service charge shall be
capitalized or added to the original principal of the title pledge transaction. [f a payment is scheduled for a Sunday, legal holiday, or any
other date in which we are not open for business, then we will credit any payment received on our next business day, as if it were received on
the date scheduled. We do not accept personal checks.

 

Prepayment, You may prepay in full at any time to redeem the Pledged Goods and will not incur an additional charge or fee. However,
because the finance charge (title pledge service charge) is earned, due, and owing as of the date of this transaction, you will not be entitled to a
rebate and refund of any part of the finance charge. In addition, if you prepay the Amount Financed prior to the close of business on the business
day immediately following the date of this Title Pledge Agreement, we will rebate and refund to you the interest we have earned.

Default. Because you have no obligations to redeem the Pledged Goods or pay us any amount hereunder (that is, no personal liability), you
will only be in default if the representations and warranties you make herein are false, In the event of default, we may exercise our rights
under Mississippi law,

HC# 4850-1428-3791

a

 
Additional Terms and Conditions
No Obligation to Redeem, Extend, ar hakouny Papmentsnchouiare adtch pater opnequiredte cedoeimyths pledged Certificate of Title.
You are not obligated or required to extend or continue the maturity date. Unless you want to redeem the motor vehicle, you are not

obligated or required to make any payments hereunder,

Extension and Continuation of the Maturity Date. By agreement of the parties, we may extend or continue the maturity date of the title
pledge transaction for thirty-day periods. We will send you a Notice of Amendment to the Title Pledge Agreement Transaction Form,
Extending and Continuing the Maturity Date (“Extension Notice”) prior to the Maturity Date or any extended maturity date setting forth your
options to extend or continue the maturity date of the title pledge transaction for an additional thirty day period. We will not capitalize or add
any accrued interest or service charge to the original principal of the title pledge transaction during any extension or continuation. Pursuant
to Miss. Code Ann. § 75-67-413, beginning with the first extension or continuation and at each successive extension or continuation
thereafter, you shall be required to reduce the principal amount financed by at least ten percent (10%) of the original principal amount of the
title pledge transaction. If you fail to pay at least ten percent (10%) of the original principal amount at any such extension or continuation, we
may, at our option, either (a) declare the outstanding principal and any service charges to be immediately due and payable, or (b) allow the
transaction to be extended or continued, provided we will reduce the principal amount of the loan by ten percent (10%) of the original
principal amount solely for the purposes of calculating the service charge. This reduction in principal shali continue to be owing by you in
accordance with the terms herein, but that amount shall not be entitled to accrue interest or service charges thereafter. By paying us one of
the payment options (other than the full amount or principal and service charges owing) set forth in the Extension Notice, you agree to the
extended maturity date set forth in the Extension Notice.

Redeeming the Certificate of Title. When the Certificate of Title is redeemed, we agree to release the security interest in the Pledged
Goods and return the Personal Property Certificate of Title to you.

Non-Redemption and Non-Payment. 1f you do not redeem the Pledged Property on or before the Maturity Date of the Title Pledge
Agreement, or any extension or continuation thereof, we have the right to take possession of the Titled Persona! Property and to exercise a
power of attorney to transfer title to the Pledged Property. If you do not make payments to either redeem or extend and continue the maturity
date, we have the right to take possession of the Titled Personal Property and to exercise a power of attorney to transfer title to the Pledged
Property.

Repossession and Repossession Costs. In taking possession, our agent or we may proceed without judicial process if this can be done
without breach of the peace; or, if necessary, may proceed by action to obtain judicial process. If, within thirty (30) days after the Maturity
Date, or any extension or continuation thereof, you redeem the Pledged Property by paying all outstanding principal, interest, and other
customary fees, we shall give you possession of the Titled Personal Property and the Pledged Property without further charge. We may
prorate the accrued title pledge service charges, if you redeem the Pledged Property within 30 days after the maturity date, or any extension
or continuation thereof. If you fail to redeem the Pledged Property within thirty (30) days after the Maturity Date, or any extension or
continuation thereof, then you shall thereby forfeit all right, title and interest in and to the Titled Personal Property and the Pledged Property
to us and we shall thereby acquire an absolute right of title and ownership to the Titled Personal Property. Upon such occurrence, we shall
then have the sole right and authority to sell or dispose of the Titled Personal Property. Notwithstanding anything in the preceding sentences
of this paragraph, you shall have three (3) business days after we take possession of the Titled Personal Property to redeem such property by
paying the amount of the unpaid principal balance, the delinquent service charge and the actual cost of the repossession. The cost of
repossession shall include towing charges, storage charges paid to a third party, and repairs made to the property to render it operable. 1f the
Title Personal Property is sold after the three-business-day period, we shall return to you the amount received from the sale less the amount of
the unpaid principal balance, the delinquent service charge, the actual cost of the repossession and a sales fee of One Hundred Dollars ($
100.00). However, any Titled Personal Property that is deemed salvage by us may be sold or otherwise disposed of immediately upon
repossession.

Power of Attorney. By signing below you grant to us a power of attorney and thereby authorize us to transfer title to the Pledged Property
from you to us upon your failure to redeem the Pledged Property on or before the Maturity Date, or any extension thereof. We shall take
physical possession of the Certificate of Title for the entire length of the Title Pledge Agreement, but shall not be required to take physical
possession of the Titled Personal Property at any time. You acknowledge we may only take unencumbered certificates of title for pledge, but
may encumber the title as part of the title pledge transaction by perfecting our security interest in the titled property.

Governing Law and Assignment. This Title Pledge Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Mississippi, except the Jury
Trial Waiver and Arbitration Clause is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”). We may assign or transfer this Title Pledge
Agreement or any of our rights hereunder.

Presentation of Title Pledge Transaction Form. If this Title Pledge Transaction Form is lost, destroyed, or stolen, you agree to
immediately notify us in writing by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or in person evidenced by a signed receipt, and
receipt of this notice shall invalidate such Title Pledge Transaction Form if the Pledged Property has not previously been redeemed. Before
delivering the Pledged Property or issuing a new Title Pledge Transaction Form, we shal! require you to make a written statement of the loss,
destruction or theft of your copy of the Title Pledge Transaction Form. We shall record on the written statement the type of identification and
the identification number accepted from you, the date the statement is given and the number of the Title Pledge Transaction Form lost,
destroyed or stolen. The statement shall be signed by us or our office employee who accepts the statement from you. Pursuant to Miss. Code
Ann. § 75-67-417, we are entitled to a fee not to exceed Five Dollars ($ 5.00) in connection with each such lost, destroyed or stolen Title
Pledge Transaction Form and the taking of a properly prepared written statement. Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 75-67-417 any person
presenting identification of himself or herself and presenting the copy of the Title Pledge Transaction Form to us is presumed to be entitled to
redeem the Pledged Property. However, if we determine that the person is not you, then we are not required to allow redemption of the
Piedged Property by such person. The person redeeming the Pledged Property must sign your copy of the Title Pledge Transaction Form,
which we may retain to evidence such person’s receipt of the Pledged Property. If the person redeeming the Pledged Property is not you,
then such person must show identification to us, and we shall record the person’s name and address on the Title Pledge Transaction Form
retained by us. We shall not be liable to you for having allowed the redemption of the Pledged Property by another person pursuant to this
subsection Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 75-67-417(1).

Stolen Pledged Property. Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 75-67-433, if the Pledged Property is found to be stolen and is returned to the
rightful owner by law enforcement authorities and if we accepted such Pledged Property in compliance with all of the duties and

 

 
Additional Terms and Conditions
responsibilities as specified instho Mississippi titi PledesAphalweing the-trangagtionpther the rightfuLowngeo§guch Pledged Property shall
be liable to us for the pledged amount if the rightful owner fails to prosecute or cooperate in the criminal prosecution related to such title loan
transaction, provided the rightful owner can prove the stolen goods are theirs. It shall also be our responsibility to assist or cooperate in the
criminal prosecution related to such title pledge transaction. If the identity of a person who pawned stolen goods can be determined, the
district attorney may prosecute such person for any applicable criminal violations.

Consent to Call. You authorize us to contact you about your account at any of the telephone numbers you have provided to us, including

any cell phone number. This includes but is not limited to contacting you by auto-dialed, prerecorded and/or text messages.
JURY TRIAL WAIVER AND ARBITRATION CLAUSE.

By signing you agree to this Jury Trial Waiver and Arbitration Clause (“Clause”):

 

 

What is An ana tive In arbitration, a third party (“Arbiter”) solves Disputes in a hearing (“hearing”). You, related
arbitration? to court third parties, and we, waive the right to go to court. Such “parties” forgo jury trials.

 

Is it different
from court and | Yes,
| jury trials?
Who does the You, us, This Clause governs the parties, their heirs, successors, assigns, and third parties related to the
Clause cover? and Others. | transaction.

In this Clause, the word “Disputes” has the broadest possible meaning. This Clause governs all
“Disputes” involving the parties. This includes all claims even indirectly related to my
application and agreement with us. This includes claims related to information you previously
gave us. It includes all past agreements. It includes any agreed-upon extensions, renewals,

The hearing is private and less formal than court. Arbiters may limit pre-hearing fact finding,
called “discovery.” The decision is final. Courts rarely overturn Arbiters.

 

 

Which Disputes | All

 

 

 

 

are covered? Disputes. refinancings, or payment plans. It includes claims related to collections, privacy, and customer
information. It includes claims related to setting aside this Clause. It includes claims about the
Clause’s validity and scope. It includes claims about whether to arbitrate.
You waiye my rights to:
oe 1, Have juries solve Disputes.
Are you walving | Yes. 2. Have courts, other than small-claims courts, solve Disputes.
rights? 3. Serve as a private attorney general or in a representative capacity,
4. Be ina class action.
Are you waiving COURTS AND ARBITERS WON’T ALLOW CLASS ACTIONS. You waive your rights to
class action Yes. be in a class action, as a representative and a member. Only individual arbitration, or smal!-
rights? claims courts, will solve Disputes. You waive your right to have representative claims.
The Federal | This transaction involves interstate commerce, so the FAA governs. If a court finds the FAA
What law Arbitration | doesn’t apply, and the finding can’t be appealed, then your state’s law governs, The Arbiter must
applies? Act apply substantive law consistent with the FAA. The Arbiter must follow statutes of limitation
(“FAA”). and privilege claims.

 

You can try to solve Disputes if you will call us at 800.611.9342. If this doesn’t solve the
Dispute, mail us written notice, within 60 days of the Dispute date (“Dispute Notice”). Tell us
the details and how you want to solve it. We will try to solve the Dispute. If we make a written
offer (‘Settlement Offer”), you can reject it and arbitrate. If we do not solve the Dispute, either
party may start arbitration. To start arbitration, contact an Arbiter or arbitration group listed
below. No party will disclose settlement proposals to the Arbiter during arbitration.

Can the parties
try to solve Yes.
Disputes first?

 

 

 

How should you By mail Send mail to: P.O. Box 2038 Cleveland TN 37320. You can call us or use certified mail to
contact us? . confirm receipt.
Can small- Each party has the right to arbitrate. Subject to state law limits, small-claims courts can solve
claims court some Disputes. If there is an appeal, or if a Dispute is not within a smali-claims court’s power,
solve some Yes. then the Dispute will be heard by an Arbiter. Arbitration will solve Disputes that small-claims
Disputes? courts can’t hear.

Both parties may use lawful self-help remedies. This includes set-off or repossession and sale of
Do other Yes. any collateral. Both parties may seek remedies which don’t claim money damages. This includes

i ist? roa . . .
options exist? pre-judgment seizure, injunctions, or equitable relief.

The Clause stays effective, unless the parties sign an agreement stating it doesn’t. The Clause
governs if you rescind the transaction. It governs if you default, renew, prepay, or pay. It governs

 

Will this Clause | Yes, unless

 

continue to otherwise if your contract is discharged through bankruptcy. The Clause remains effective, despite a
govern? agreed. t a oe wns
ransaction’s termination, amendment, expiration, or performance.
Either party may mail the other a request to arbitrate, even if a lawsuit has been filed. The notice
How d should describe the Dispute and relief sought. The receiving party must mail a response within
‘bit tio Mailing a 20 days. If you mail the demand, you may choose the arbitration group. Or, your demand may
ata o fon notice. state that you want the parties to choose a local Arbiter. If related third parties or we mail the

demand, you must respond in 20 days. Your response must choose an arbitration group or
propose a local Arbiter. If it doesn’t, we may choose the group.

 

 

 

 

 

 
Additional Terms and Conditions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2020-Bor frag Gelect the dcagrieant AirbitritieedAGGOAHQ0 0A A APROE 880-B7 88879)
hitp://www.adr.org or JAMS (1-800-352-5267) http://www jamsadr.com. The parties may also
AAA, agree in writing to a local attorney, retired judge, or Arbiter in good standing with an arbitration
Who JAMS, or group. The Arbiter must arbitrate under AAA or JAMS consumer rules. You may get a copy of
arbitrates? an agreed these rules from such group. Any rules that conflict with any of your agreements with us, don’t
Arbiter. apply. If these options aren’t available, and the parties can’t agree on another, a court may

choose a group. The parties will then obtain an Arbiter under such group’s rules. Such Arbiter
must enforce my agreements with us, as they are written. _

Will the hearing Yes The Arbiter will order the hearing within 30 miles of your home or where the transaction

be held nearby? occurred as allowed by law.

What about Appeals are The arbitrator’s decision will be final. A party may file the Arbiter’s award with the proper court.

appeals? limited. A iation will solve appeals of a small-claims court judgment. A party may appeal under the

ee acvance you'may We will advance your “Arbitration Fees.” This includes filing, administrative, hearing, and

Fees? nay costs. Arbiter’s fees. You pay your attorney fees and other expenses.

Are damages Yes, if ; : / |
The Arbiter may award the same damages as a court. Arbiters may award reasonable attorney

and attorney allowed by fees, and expenses, if allowed by law.

fees possible? law.

Will you pay

Arbitration No. If the Arbiter awards you funds, I don’t reimburse you the Arbitration Fees.

Fees if you win? | a |

en eee a Yes If the Arbiter doesn’t award you funds, then you must repay the Arbitration Fees. If you must

re 5? . pay Arbitration Fees, the amount won’t exceed state court costs.

Can an award Yes A party may request details from the Arbiter, within 14 days of the ruling. Upon such request,

be explained? the Arbiter will explain the ruling in writing.

won oon t ves. tour Consider these choices:

arbitrate, can convenes and 1. Informal Dispute Resolution. Contact us, and attempt to settle any Disputes.

you still get a decide not 2. Small-claims Court. Seek to solve Disputes in small-claims court, within state law limits.

transaction? to arbitrate. 3. Opt-Out of Arbitration. Sign and then timely opt-out.

Can vou opt-out | Yes. Within Write us within 60 calendar days of signing your agreement to opt-out of the Clause for that

of the Clause > 60 da ‘ agreement. List your name, address, account number and date. List that you “opt-out.” If you

° ys: opt-out, it will only apply to that agreement. |

 

Notice to Borrower. Please note the following Notice to Borrower, also posted in our location, in accordance with CMSR 03-000-014:

 

NOTICE TO BORROWER

 

Mississippi law states, “A title pledge lender shall not advance funds to a pledgor to pay off an existing title pledge agreement”. It is illegal
to renew or pay off an existing title loan you have with this lender with the proceeds of a new title loan from this lender. We encourage
you to report any violation to the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance. You may be entitled to a refund if this Title
Pledge Lender is found to be in violation of the law.

If you have any questions or need additional information about this type of transaction or about any other activity or procedure conducted
in this office, please call or write:Mississippi Department of Banking & Consumer Finance, Post Office Drawer 23729, Jackson,
Mississippi 39225-3729; Phone: 1-800-844-2499.

 

 

Additional Notice:

 

1. The pledgor is not obligated to redeem the pledged certificate of title;

2. If the pledgor does not redeem the pledged certificate of title on or before the maturity date of the title pledge agreement, the title
pledge lender may take possession of the titled personal property to which the certificate of title relates;

3. If the piedgor does not redeem the pledged property within thirty (30) days of the maturity date by paying al! outstanding principal,
interest and other fees, then the pledgor forfeits al! right, title and interest in and to the titled persona! property and the pledged property to
the title pledge lender, who shall thereby acquire an absolute right of title and ownership to the titled personal property;

4, If this title pledge transaction form is lost, destroyed or stolen, the pledgor shall immediately advise the issuing title pledge lender; and
5. The pledgor represents and warrants that the titled personal property to which the pledged property relates is not stolen, it has no liens
or encumbrances against it, and the pledgor has the right to enter into this transaction.

 

 

ent

  
 

Verification Sta

B rightful owner of the pledged property and are entitled to pledge it.

 

 

Signature of the co-pledgor or co-seller

 

“Signature of the pledgor or seller
y é

 

The titled personal property is subject to sale at any time after the three-business-day
period has expired, unless the property is deemed to be salvage by the title pledge
lender, in which case the property may be sold or otherwise disposed of immediately.

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Additional Terms and Conditions
2020-BCFP-0003 Document’ Filed 06/0 A ce 34 of 38 —.
Initials of the Pledgor Initials of the Co-Pledgor

Additional Acknowledgments. By signing below, you acknowledge and agree to the following. (i) No business other than title pledge
business was conducted at the title pledge office. (ii) The Titled Personal Property to which the Pledged Property relates is not stolen, it has
no liens or encumbrances against it, and you have the right to enter into this transaction. (ii) At the time of the transaction, we delivered and
you received an exact copy of the completed Title Pledge Agreement signed by our employee. (iv) You are at least eighteen (18) years of
age. (v) You are not under the influence of drugs or alcohol. (vi) You are not using a name other than your own name or the registered name
of a business. (vii) At the time of entering this Title Pledge Agreement, the Certificate of Title is unencumbered. (viii) If you meet our
criteria, and pay one of the payment options in the Extension Notice, then the maturity date of this Title Pledge Agreement shall be extended
and continued, as set forth herein and under such “Extension Notice.” You further acknowledge that you have read, understand, and
agree to all of the terms of this Title Pledge Agreement, including the “Jury Trial Waiver and Arbitration Clause.”

I, the pledgor declare under penalty of perjury that I have read the foregoing document and that, to the best of my knowledge and

belief, the facfs contained in it/are true and correct.
ACAC, - d/b/a Approved Cash Advance
Hi gnature of the pledgor or seller ( } Ts Hopployee -

Signature of the co-pledgor or co-seller

 

 

 

       

 

 
 

2020-BCFP-0003 Document1 Filed 06/02/2020 Page 35 of 38

AGREEMENT TO RECEIVE TELEMARKETING TEXT MESSAGES

By signing this section, you authorize ACAC, Inc. (or our agent) to send marketing text messages to the
mobile number you have provided and that is listed below using an automatic telephone dialing system.
You are not required to authorize marketing text messages to obtain credit or other services from us. If
you do not wish to receive, sales or marketing text messages from us, you should not sign this section.
You understand that any messages we send you may be accessed by anyone with access to your text
messages. You also understand that your mobile phone service provider may charge you fees for text
messages that we send you, and you agree that we shall have no liability for the cost of any such text
messages. At any time, you may withdraw your consent to receive marketing text messages by calling
us at 888-227-4758. Alternatively, simply reply “STOP” to any marketing text message that we send you.

Mobile Telephone Number: P|

    

 

Date 04/24/2018

 
2020-BCFP-000S5 GRAPE BES £ ATIORNEY? Page 36 of 38

DATED: __ 04/24/2018 8

 

ACAC Inc. d/b/a Approved Cash

   

| hereby appoint Po as my attorney-in-fact to sign all applications, bills of sale
and/or assignments on the Certificate of Title, covering the vehicle described as:

Make:
Model:

Identification Number: __

YearofModel: ss

And for said purpose to sign my name and do all things necessary.

 

 

 

 

Name: |
Signature: |

Address: _

 

 

STATE OF: MS
COUNTY OF:

 

i with whom

| am personally acquainted, who acknowledged that the foregoing instrument was execute for the purpose therein
contained.

Personally appeared before me, the undersigned authority,

 

 

Notary Public My Commission Expires
 

 

Exhibit B
Amortization Schedule

 

2020-BCFP-0003° Document T Filed 06/02/2020 Page 38 of 38

 

   
   

  

Loan Number: Po Principal Reduction: 10.00 % / Payment # 1

Customer: | Amount Financed: $500.00

Initial Transaction Date: 04/24/2018

Pmt # Start Due Payment Principal Fee Payoff
1 4/24/2018 5/24/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $619.50
2 5/24/2018 6/23/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $611.33
3 6/23/2018 7/23/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $591.21
4 7/23/2018 8/22/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $559.14
5 8/22/2018 9/21/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $515.12
6 9/21/2018 10/21/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $459.15
7 10/21/2018 11/20/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $391.23
8 11/20/2018 12/20/2018 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $311.36
9 12720/2018 1/19/2019 $115.72 $50.00 $65.72 $219.54
10 2/18/2019 $115.77 $50.00 $65.77 $115.77

 

 

 
