cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Short-term Lenders for
Engaging in Unfair and Deceptive Acts and Practices

JUN 02, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau)
announced a settlement with Main Street Personal Finance, Inc. and its subsidiaries-ACAC,
Inc., which conducts business under the name Approved Cash Advance, and Quik Lend,
Inc.-(collectively, Approved Cash). The companies, which are based in Cleveland,
Tennessee, offer payday and auto-title loans and own and operate about 156 stores in eight
different states: Alabama, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
Tennessee, and Virginia. The Bureau found that Approved Cash provided deceptive finance
charge disclosures in violation of the Consumer Financial Protection Act (CFPA) and the
Truth in Lending Act (TILA), violated the CFPA and TILA by failing to refund overpayments

on its loans, and violated the CFPA by engaging in unfair debt collection practices. The
consent order prohibits Approved Cash from engaging in this unlawful conduct in the
future and requires it to pay consumer redress and a civil money penalty.

Specifically, the Bureau found that Approved Cash violated the CFPA’s prohibition against
engaging in deceptive acts or practices and TILA by concealing and understating the actual
finance charges of its auto-title loans, which are called auto-title pledge transactions under
Mississippi state law, for over 4,000 consumers. Consumers paid a total of over $3.5 million
more than the finance charge listed in Approved Cash's loan disclosures. The Bureau also
found that Approved Cash violated the CFPA’s prohibition against unfair acts or practices
and TILA by retaining consumers’ overpayments on their loans for months and sometimes
years instead of returning those funds to consumers. The Bureau also found that Approved
Cash engaged in unfair debt collection practices in violation of the CFPA when it made
numerous calls to consumers’ workplaces, references, and other third parties after being
asked to stop, and improperly disclosed consumers’ debts to third parties or used tactics
that risked such disclosure.

The consent order imposes a judgment against Approved Cash of approximately $3.5
million in consumer redress, which amount is suspended upon its payment of $2 million of
that judgment and $1 civil money penalty to the Bureau based on Approved Cash's
demonstrated inability to pay. Whenever the Bureau collects a civil money penalty through
an enforcement action, that penalty is deposited into the Bureau’s Civil Penalty Fund.
Assuming continued available funds, the Bureau will work to provide full relief to eligible
harmed consumers from this fund. The consent order also prohibits Approved Cash from
misrepresenting finance charges in its auto-title pledge transactions, requires it to ensure
that consumers with credit balances over $1 are refunded timely, and prohibits it from
engaging in the same unlawful debt collections practices.

The consent order issued against Approved Cash is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_main-street-et-al_consent-

 

20-06.pdf)
HH

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
