Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges ABB For Bribery Schemes in Mexico and
Iraq

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2010-175

 

Washington, D.C., Sept. 29, 2010 — The
Securities and Exchange Commission today High-Res Photo
charged ABB Ltd with violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for using
subsidiaries to pay bribes to Mexican officials
to obtain business with government-owned
power companies, and to pay kickbacks to
Iraq to obtain contracts under the U.N. Oil for
Food Program.

 

Additional Materials

®» SEC Complaint
» Litigation Release No. 21673

 

 

The SEC alleges that ABB's subsidiaries made

at least $2.7 million in illicit payments in “There are significant
these schemes to obtain contracts that consequences for public
generated more than $100 million in companies that fail to
revenues for ABB, a Swiss corporation that implement strong

compliance programs and
prevent corrupt payments
to government officials.”

provides power and automation products and
services worldwide.

ABB has agreed to pay more than $39.3 Scott W. Friestad
million to settle the SEC's charges. Associate Director

SEC Enforcement
"This investigation uncovered millions of Division

 

 

dollars in bribes paid or promised to officials
at Mexico's largest power company," said
Scott W. Friestad, Associate Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement. "As
the sanctions in this case demonstrate, there are significant consequences for
public companies that fail to implement strong compliance programs and
prevent corrupt payments to government officials.

 

Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief of the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit,
added, "ABB's violations involved conduct at a U.S. subsidiary and six foreign-
based subsidiaries. Multi-national companies that make illicit payments
through layers of subsidiaries will be held accountable."

The SEC's complaint filed in federal court in Washington, D.C., alleges that
from 1999 to 2004, ABB Network Management (ABB NM) — a business unit
within ABB's U.S. subsidiary — bribed officials in Mexico to obtain and retain
business with two government owned electric utilities, Comision Federal de
Electricidad (CFE) and Luz y Fuerza del Centro (LyFZ). The bribes were
funneled through ABB NM's agent and two other companies in Mexico. The
SEC alleges that ABB failed to conduct due diligence on these payments and
entities and improperly recorded the bribes on its books as payments for
commissions and services on projects in Mexico. Illicit payments included
checks and wire transfers to relatives of CFE officials, cash bribes to CFE
officials, and a Mediterranean cruise vacation for CFE officials and their wives.
As a result of this bribery scheme, ABB NM was awarded contracts with CFE
and LyFZ that generated more than $90 million in revenues and $13 million in
profits for ABB.

The SEC alleges that from approximately 2000 to 2004, ABB participated in
the U.N. Oil for Food Program through six subsidiaries that developed various
schemes to pay secret kickbacks to the former regime in Iraq to obtain
contracts under the program. ABB's Jordanian subsidiary acted as a conduit
for other ABB subsidiaries by making the kickback payments on their behalf.
Some of the kickbacks were made in the form of bank guarantees and cash
payments. ABB improperly recorded these kickbacks on its books as
legitimate payments for after sales services, consultation costs, and
commissions. Oil for Food contracts obtained as a result of the kickback
schemes generated $13.5 million in revenues and $3.8 million in profits for
ABB.

Without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC's complaint, ABB
consented to the entry of a final judgment that permanently enjoins the
company from future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, orders the company to pay
$17,141,474 in disgorgement, $5,662,788 in prejudgment interest, anda
$16,510,000 penalty. The order also requires the company to comply with
certain undertakings regarding its FCPA compliance program.

In related criminal proceedings, ABB has reached a settlement with the U.S.
Department of Justice in which ABB has agreed to pay $19 million in criminal
penalties.

Brian O. Quinn, Tracy L. Price, and Denise Hansberry conducted the SEC's
investigation. The Commission acknowledges the assistance of the
Department of Justice's Criminal Division-Fraud Section, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, and the U.N. Independent Inquiry Committee.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Cheryl J. Scarboro,
Chief, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403

Scott W. Friestad
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement
202-551-4962

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-175.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 09/29/2010
