Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges RAE Systems for Illegal Payments Made
Through Joint Ventures to Win Chinese Government
Contracts

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2010-242

Washington, D.C., Dec. 10, 2010 — The Securities and Exchange Commission

today charged San Jose-based RAE Systems Inc. with violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for making improper payments through two of its
Chinese joint venture entities to Chinese officials in order to obtain significant
government contracts for their gas and chemical detection products.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 21770
» SEC Complaint

 

The SEC alleges that the $400,000 in improper payments resulted in contracts
worth approximately $3 million in revenue and garnered more than $1.1
million in illicit profits.

RAE agreed to pay approximately $1.25 million to settle the SEC's charges. In
a related criminal case, the U.S. Department of Justice announced today that
RAE agreed to pay an additional $1.7 million criminal fine.

"RAE Systems develops products to detect harmful emissions, yet it did not
have adequate measures in place to detect and root out internal wrongdoing,"
said Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief of the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit.
"Companies that fail to respond to red flags can be held liable for the acts of
their joint venture partners."

According to the SEC's complaint filed in U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia, the payments — which occurred from 2004 to 2008 — were made
primarily by the direct sales force utilized by RAE at the two joint venture
entities: RAE-KLH (Beijing) Co., Limited (RAE-KLH) and RAE Coal Mine Safety
Instruments (Fushun) Co., Ltd. (RAE-Fushun).

The SEC alleges that RAE-KLH and RAE-Fushun sales personnel typically made
the illicit payments by obtaining cash advances from accounting personnel,
and that RAE did not impose sufficient internal controls or make any
meaningful changes to sales personnel practices. Expenses associated with
these payments were improperly recorded on the books of RAE-KLH and RAE-
Fushun as "business fees" or "travel and entertainment" expenses. Moreover,
while the payments were made exclusively in China and by Chinese
employees of RAE-KLH and RAE-Fushun, RAE failed to act on red flags
indicating this activity, which allowed, at least in part, the misconduct to
continue at RAE-KLH.

The SEC's complaint charges RAE with violations of the anti-bribery, books
and records, and internal controls provisions of the FCPA. Without admitting
or denying the allegations, RAE consented to the entry of a permanent
injunction against FCPA violations and agreed to pay $1,147,800 in
disgorgement and $109,212 in prejudgment interest. RAE also agreed to
comply with certain undertakings regarding its FCPA compliance program.
The settlement is subject to court approval.

Ricky Sachar and C. Joshua Felker conducted the SEC's investigation. The
Commission acknowledges the assistance of the Department of Justice's
Criminal Division-Fraud Section.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Cheryl J. Scarboro
Chief, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403

C. Joshua Felker
Assistant Director, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4960

http: //www.sec.gov/news/press/2010/2010-242.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 12/10/2010
