Release Number 7210-15

© Ea

   

 

August 7, 2015

CFTC Charges New York Resident Gary Creagh and his Company, Wall Street Pirate
Management, LLC, with Making False Statements to the National Futures Association

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced the filing of an
enforcement action charging Defendants Gary Creagh and Wall Street Pirate Management, LLC (Wall Street Pirate),
both of New York, New York, with making false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or omissions to the National Futures
Association (NFA) in statutorily required reports and during an NFA audit, in violation of the Commodity Exchange Act
(CEA). Both Wall Street Pirate and Creagh, the managing member and sole employee of Wall Street Pirate, were
registered with the CFTC at the time of the conduct.

The CFTC Complaint, filed on August 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, charges that,
from at least December 2011 through September 2013, Creagh willfully made false statements or representations to the
NFA and concealed material information from the NFA. Specifically, Creagh falsely represented to the NFA on multiple
occasions that the commodity pool he operated on behalf of Wall Street Pirate was not active, despite the fact that he
had accepted funds from prospective pool participants and actively traded commodity futures on behalf of the
commodity pool, according to the Complaint. The CFTC Complaint also charges that Wall Street Pirate, by and through
Creagh, failed to maintain required books and records and provide account statements and privacy notices to pool
participants.

The NFA is a Chicago-based futures association, which is registered with the CFTC and serves as an industry self-
regulatory organization. Pursuant to the CEA, the NFA is responsible, under CFTC oversight, for certain aspects of the
regulation of futures entities and their associated persons.

In its continuing litigation against the Defendants, the CFTC seeks disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, restitution to
defrauded customers, a civil monetary penalty, permanent trading and registration bans, and a permanent injunction
against further violations of the federal commodities laws, as charged.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Jonah E. McCarthy, Timothy J. Mulreany,
Patricia Gomersall, and Paul G. Hayeck.

The CFTC would like to thank the NFA for its cooperation in this matter.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: August 7, 2015
