Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Former CEO of Kellogg, Brown & Root, Inc.
with Foreign Bribery

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2008-189

Washington, D.C., Sept. 3, 2008 — The Securities and Exchange Commission
today charged former Kellogg, Brown & Root, Inc. (KBR) executive Albert
Jackson Stanley with violating the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and related provisions of the federal securities
laws. The Commission alleges that over a 10-year period, Stanley and others
participated in a scheme to bribe Nigerian government officials in order to
obtain construction contracts worth more than $6 billion. The contracts were
awarded to a four-company joint venture of which The M.W. Kellogg
Company, and later KBR, was a member.

 

Additional Materials

® Litigation Release No. 20700
» SEC Complaint

 

“As this case demonstrates, the SEC is committed to holding violators
accountable when they engage in illegal conduct to obtain business in foreign
countries,” said Linda Chatman Thomsen, Director of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement.

The SEC alleges that beginning as early as 1994, Stanley and other members
of the joint venture determined that it was necessary to pay bribes to
individuals within the Nigerian government in order to obtain contracts to
build liquefied natural gas facilities (LNG Trains) in Bonny Island, Nigeria.
Stanley and others met with high-ranking Nigerian government officials and
their representatives on at least four occasions to arrange the bribe
payments. To conceal the illicit payments, Stanley and others approved
entering into sham contracts with two “agents” to funnel money to the
Nigerian officials. Thereafter, as the joint venture was paid for its work
building the LNG Trains, the joint venture paid the agents more than $180
million. In turn, substantial payments were made to various Nigerian
government officials.

“This case demonstrates the Commission’s continued vigorous enforcement
of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,” said Antonia Chion, an Associate
Director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement. “The FCPA prohibits both direct
bribes and those that are made through intermediaries.”

Without admitting or denying the allegations in the complaint, Stanley has
consented to the entry of a final judgment that permanently enjoins him from
violating the anti-bribery, record-keeping and internal control provisions of
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Sections 30A and 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1).
Stanley also has agreed to cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation.
The proposed settlement with Stanley is subject to the court’s approval.

In a related criminal proceeding announced today, the U.S. Department of
Justice filed criminal charges against Stanley for conspiring to violate the
FCPA and conspiring to commit mail and wire fraud. Stanley has pleaded
guilty to one count of conspiring to violate the FCPA and one count of
conspiring to commit mail and wire fraud (unrelated to the FCPA charge). He
faces seven years in prison and payment of $10.8 million in restitution.

“The Department of Justice is committed to aggressively enforcing the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General
Matthew Friedrich. “Today’s plea demonstrates that corporate executives who
bribe foreign government officials in return for lucrative business deals can
expect to face prosecution.”

The Commission’s investigation is continuing. The Commission acknowledges
the assistance of the Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section
as well as foreign authorities in the Commission's investigation.

HH#H
For more information, contact:

Antonia Chion
Associate Director, SEC’s Division of Enforcement
(202) 551-4842

Kara Novaco Brockmeyer
Assistant Director, SEC’s Division of Enforcement
(202) 551-4767
http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2008/2008-189.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 09/03/2008
