 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (— RECEIV
Before the eS
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

Office of Proceedings

 

 

 

 

) Proceedings Clerk
In the Matter of: ) 2:04 pm, Sep 17, 2015
) Ne TS)
Terry Lee Phillips, Phillips )
Investment & Trust LLC, and ) CFTC Docket No. 15-30
Corporate I Communications & )
Technology Inc., )
)
Respondents. )

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL sanctions

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from in or about October 2011 to at least March 2014 (the “Relevant Period”), Terry Lee Phillips
and his companies Phillips Investment & Trust LLC and Corporate I Communications &
Technology Inc. (collectively “Respondents”) violated Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) and
4o0(1)(A)-(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA” or “Act”), 7 U.S.C. 88 6b(1)(2)(A)-(C),
60(1)(A)-(B). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether
Respondents engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order
should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

Il.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondents consent to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial sanctions (“Order”) and
acknowledge service of this Order.’

 

Respondents consent to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party; provided, however, that Respondents do not consent to the use of the Offer, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce
III.
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

From at least 2011 through 2014, Respondents fraudulently obtained at least $113,400
from numerous individual and entity investors for the purpose of trading commodity futures in a
designated contract market in violations of the CEA, misrepresenting to investors that Phillips had
achieved past success trading futures when he had never actually done so. Respondents
misappropriated a large portion of investors’ funds for the personal use of Respondent Terry Lee
Phillips (“Phillips”), and misrepresented to investors that Phillips was achieving enormous
profits trading on their behalf when in fact he was either trading their funds for significant losses
or not trading at all. Most of the investors’ funds have not been returned.

B. RESPONDENTS

Terry Lee Phillips is an individual residing in Indianapolis, Indiana. Phillips is the sole
principal and owner of Phillips Investment and CIC. Phillips has never been registered with the
Commission in any capacity.

Phillips Investment & Trust, Inc. (“Phillips Investment”) is a limited liability company
organized in Indiana on or about June 3, 2013. Phillips Investment has never been registered
with the Commission in any capacity.

Corporate I Communications & Technology Inc. (“CIC”) is a corporation organized in
Indiana on or about November 9, 2005. CIC has never been registered with the Commission in
any capacity,

C. FACTS

During the Relevant Period, Respondents solicited and accepted at least $113,400 from
13 individuals and entities for the purpose of trading commodity futures. Phillips misrepresented
to his investors that he had traded futures profitably in the past. In fact, Phillips knew that he had
never made any substantial profits trading futures.

Between 2003 and 2011, Phillips opened at least five separate futures trading accounts
with various futures commission merchants (““FCMs”). The accounts were opened in the names
of business entities Phillips owned, including CIC. Phillips used these accounts to trade futures
contracts, including, most often, the E-Mini Dow Futures contract (YM). His trading was
consistently unprofitable. In fact, there were only two calendar months — February 2004 and
April 2010 — in which Phillips avoided trading losses, netting less than $500 profit combined in
those two months. By contrast, between October 2013 and March 2014, when Phillips traded the

 

the terms of this Order. Nor do Respondents consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other
proceeding.

 
E-Mini Dow Futures contract in a sixth FCM account that he opened in the name of Phillips
Investment (the “Phillips Investment Trading Account”), Phillips’ trading resulted in losses of
tens of thousands of dollars, most of which Phillips had obtained from various investors.
Examples of Respondents’ conduct are described below.

In the fall of 2012, Phillips addressed an undergraduate college class at the invitation of
the instructor, who was acquainted with Phillips. Phillips described his business and day-trading
success to the class, inducing six students to give CIC cash and personal checks totaling $2,700,
and to sign contracts providing that Phillips would, through trading futures, generate profits of
$400 or more per student per day in exchange for a commission. Later, Phillips misrepresented
to the students that he had pooled their funds and generated tens of thousands of dollars in profits
trading on their behalf. In fact, Phillips did not actually engage in trading with their funds, and
was not making any other futures trading profits at that time.

Beginning in late 2012, the college instructor provided CIC and Phillips Investment with
a total of $33,200, which included funds from a church charity and a trust benefitting his elderly
mother. Phillips deposited most of these funds in the Phillips Investment Trading Account.
Phillips provided the college instructor with a fictitious account statement indicating he had
achieved large profits trading on the college instructor’s behalf. In reality, Phillips had lost a
large portion of the college instructor’s investment and was not making any futures trading
profits at the time.

In August 2013, six friends and acquaintances of Phillips, all Indiana or Illinois residents,
formed an Indiana limited liability company (the “LLC Investor”) for the purpose of pooling
their funds so that Phillips could trade futures on their behalf. In September 2013, Phillips
Investment obtained $30,000 from the LLC Investor, some of which funds were deposited in the
Phillips Investment Trading Account. Phillips provided the LLC Investor with fictitious account
statements indicating that he had achieved large profits trading on the LLC Investor’s behalf.
However, Phillips was not making any futures trading profits and had lost much of the funds
provided by the LLC Investor.

Between August and December 2013, an Indiana resident acquainted with Phillips
provided Phillips Investment with a total of $35,000 for the purpose of trading futures. Some of
these funds were deposited in the Phillips Investment Trading Account. Phillips later provided
this individual with a fictitious account statement indicating that he had achieved tens of
thousands of dollars in profits. Phillips had lost a significant portion of this individual’s
investment and had not generated any profits trading futures.

In every instance where Phillips provided false reports of profits to investors, he knew
that his statements did not accurately reflect his trading performance. |

Most of the funds Respondents illegally obtained from their investors—at least
$94,500-—have not been returned to investors, despite many inquiries by investors and demands
for repayment.

 
IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

During the Relevant Period, in connection with commodity futures transactions made or
to be made for, on behalf of, or with investors who provided funds to Respondents for the
purpose of trading futures, Respondents cheated, defrauded or attempted to cheat or defraud such
investors, willfully made or caused to be made to such investors false reports or statements, or
willfully entered or caused to be entered for such investors false records, and willfully deceived
or attempted to deceive investors in regard to orders or contracts or the disposition or execution
of orders or contracts, or in regard to acts of agency performed by Respondents with respect to
orders or contracts for or with such investors, in violations of Section 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act,
7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C). Respondents did so by knowingly or recklessly misrepresenting
Phillips’ prior trading history and Respondents’ intentions with respect to funds received from
investors, by knowingly or recklessly distributing false account statements to investors, and by
misappropriating investors’ funds.

During the Relevant Period, Respondents operated as unregistered commodity pool
operators (“CPOs”), as defined in Section la(11)(A)G)() of the Act, in that they engaged in a
business that is in the nature of an investment trust, syndicate or similar form of enterprise, and
in connection therewith, solicited, accepted or received funds, securities, or other property from
others for the purpose of trading futures.” Sections 4o0(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§§ 60(1)(A)-(B), make it unlawful for a CPO to use the mails or any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce, directly or indirectly, to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud
any pool participant or prospective pool participant, or to engage in any transaction, practice, or
course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any pool participant or prospective pool
participant. Unlike Sections 4b(a)(1) and 40(1)(A) of the Act, the language of Section 40(1)(B)
does not require “knowing” or “willful” conduct as a prerequisite for liability. Commodity Trend
Service, Inc. vy. CFTC, 233 F.3d 981, 993 (7th Cir. 2000). The same conduct that constitutes
violations of Section 4b(a)(1) of the Act, as described above, also constitutes violations of
Sections 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act. See, e.g., CFTC v. Skorupskas, 605 F. Supp. 923, 932-33
(E.D. Mich. 1985). By their fraudulent actions during the Relevant Period, each Respondent,
through the use of the mails or other means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, while
acting as a CPO, directly or indirectly employed a device, scheme, or artifice to defraud
investors, or engaged in transactions, practices or a course of business which operated as a fraud
or deceit upon such investors, in violations of Section 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§§ 60(1)(A)-(B).

In addition to Phillips’ own violations of the Act, Phillips directly controlled Phillips
Investment and CIC and did not act in good faith or knowingly induced, directly or indirectly,
Phillips Investment and CIC’s acts in violations of the Act. Therefore, pursuant to Section 13(b)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b), Phillips is liable for Phillips Investment and CIC’s violations of
Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) and 40(1)(A)-(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C),

 

* To the extent that Respondents pooled less than $400,000, contributed by fewer than 15

participants, they may have been eligible for an exemption from registration as a CPO. See
Commission Regulation 4.13(a)(2), 17 C.F.R. § 4.13(a)(2).

 
60(1)(A)-(B). Likewise, the acts, omissions, and failures of Phillips in violations of the Act, as
discussed above, occurred within the scope of his position as an official of Phillips Investment
and/or CIC; therefore, Phillips Investment and CIC are liable for Phillips’ acts, omissions, and
failures in violations of the Act, pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B),
and Commission Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2.

V.
FINDINGS OF violations

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,
Respondents Terry Lee Phillips, Phillips Investment & Trust LLC, and Corporate I
Communications & Technology Inc. violated Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) and 40(1)(A)-(B) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 60(1)(A)-(B).

VIL
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondents have submitted the Offer in which they, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledge receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violations of or enforcement of this Order;

C, Waive:
1, The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2, A hearing;
3, All post-hearing procedures;
4, Judicial review by any court;

5. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
ULS.C, § 504, and 28 U.S.C. § 2412, and/or the rules promulgated by the
Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s Regulations,
17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30, relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.

 
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulate that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondents have consented in the Offer;

Consent, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1, Makes findings by the Commission that Respondents violated Sections
4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) and 40(1)(A)-(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C),
6o(1)(A)-(B);

2. Orders Respondents to cease and desist from violating Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C)
and 40(1)(A)-(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 60(1)(A)-(B);

3. Orders Phillips and Phillips Investment, jointly and severally, to pay restitution in
the amount of seventy-nine thousand eight hundred dollars ($79,800), plus post-
judgment interest, within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this Order;

4. Orders Phillips and CIC, jointly and severally, to pay restitution in the amount of
fourteen thousand seven hundred dollars ($14,700), plus post-judgment interest,
within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this Order;

5, Orders Respondents to pay, jointly and severally, a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of one hundred forty thousand dollars ($140,000), plus post-judgment
interest, within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this Order;

6, Appoints the National Futures Association (“NFA”) as monitor in this matter;

7. Orders that Phillips Investment and CIC are permanently prohibited from
engaging, directly or indirectly, in trading on or subject to the rules of any
registered entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§ 1a(40)), and from engaging, directly or indirectly, in entering into any
transactions involving commodity interests (as that term is defined in Regulation
1L.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(yy)) for their own accounts or for any accounts in which
they have a direct or indirect interest, or having any commodity interests traded on
their behalf} and orders that all registered entities shall refuse them trading
privileges;

8. Orders that, for a period of five (5) years after the date of entry of this Order,
Phillips is prohibited from engaging, directly or indirectly, in trading on or subject
to the rules of any registered entity (as that term ts defined in Section 1a(40) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40)), and from engaging, directly or indirectly, in entering into
any transactions involving commodity interests (as that term is defined in

 
Regulation 1.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(yy)) for his own accounts or for any accounts
in which he has a direct or indirect interest, or having any commodity interests
traded on his behalf; and orders that all registered entities shall refuse him trading
privileges during that period;

9, Orders that Respondents are permanently prohibited from controlling or directing
the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity, whether by power of
attorney or otherwise, in any account involving commodity interests; soliciting,
receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose of purchasing or
selling any commodity interests; applying for registration or claiming exemption
from registration with the Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any
activity requiring such registration or exemption from registration with the
Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R.

§ 4,14(a)(9); and/or acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation
3.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person
(as that term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)), registered,
required to be registered, or exempted from registration with the Commission
except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R § 4.14(a)(9);

10. Orders Respondents and their successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this
Order,

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.
VII.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondents shall cease and desist from violating Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) and
40(1)(A)-(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 60(1 )(A)-(B).

Phillips and Phillips Investment shall pay, jointly and severally, restitution in the amount
of seventy-nine thousand eight hundred dollars ($79,800), plus post-judgment interest,
within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this Order. Phillips and CIC shall pay,
jointly and severally, additional restitution in the amount of fourteen thousand seven
hundred dollars ($14,700), plus post-judgment interest, within thirty (30) days of the date
of entry of this Order. In total, Respondents shall pay restitution in the amount of ninety-
four thousand five hundred dollars ($94,500), plus post-judgment interest, within thirty
(30) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “Restitution Obligation”). Ifthe
Restitution Obligation is not paid in full within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this
Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the Restitution Obligation beginning
on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961.

 
To effect payment by Respondents and the distribution of restitution to Respondents’
customers, the Commission appoints the NFA as “monitor.” The monitor shall collect
payments of the Restitution Obligation from Respondents and make distributions as set
forth below. Because the monitor is not being specially compensated for these services,
and these services are outside the normal duties of the monitor, it shall not be liable for
any action or inaction arising from its appointment as monitor other than actions
involving fraud.

Respondents shall make their payments of the Restitution Obligation under this Order in
the name of the “Terry Lee Phillips Settlement Fund” and shall send such payments by
electronic funds transfer, or U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s
check, or bank money order to the Office of Administration, National Futures
Association, 300 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 1800, Chicago, Illinois 60606, under a
cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and docket number of this
proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover
letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20581.

The monitor shall oversee Respondents’ Restitution Obligation and shall have the
discretion to determine the manner of distribution of funds in an equitable fashion to the
Respondents’ customers or may defer distribution until such time as the monitor may
deem appropriate. In the event that the amount of payments of the Restitution Obligation
to the monitor are of a de minimis nature such that the monitor determines that the
administrative cost of making a restitution distribution is impractical, the monitor may, in
its discretion, treat such restitution payments as civil monetary penalty payments, which
the monitor shall forward to the Commission, as discussed below. To the extent any
funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of Respondents’ Restitution Obligation,
such funds shall be transferred to the monitor for disbursement in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this Order,

Respondents shall pay, jointly and severally, a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
one hundred forty thousand dollars ($140,000) (“CMP Obligation”), plus post-judgment
interest, within thirty (30) days of the date of the entry of this Order. If the CMP
Obligation is not paid in full within thirty (30) days of the date of entry of this Order,
then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of
entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on
the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961,

Respondents shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. [f payment is
to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made
payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

 
ATIN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S, MacArthur Blvd.
Oklahoma City, OI. 73169
(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondents shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondents shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581. |

Phillips Investment and CIC are permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly,
engaging in trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40)), and from engaging, directly or
indirectly, in entering into any transactions involving commodity interests (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3(yvy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(yy)) for their own accounts or for any
accounts in which they have a direct or indirect interest, or having any commodity
interests traded on their behalf; and all registered entities shall refuse them trading
privileges; and

Phillips is prohibited, for a period of five (5) years after the date of entry of this Order,
from, directly or indirectly, engaging in trading on or subject to the rules of any
registered entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40)),
and from engaging, directly or indirectly, in entering into any transactions involving
commodity interests (as that term is defined in Regulation 1.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3¢vy))
for his own accounts or for any accounts in which he has a direct or indirect interest, or
having any commodity interests traded on his behalf for a period of five (5) years after
the date of entry of this Order; and all registered entities shall refuse him trading
privileges during that period.

Respondents are permanently prohibited from controlling or directing the trading for or
on behalf of any other person or entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any
account involving commodity interests; soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from
any person for the purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity interests; applying for
registration or claiming exemption from registration with the Commission in any
capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such registration or exemption from
registration with the Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17
C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9); and/or acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation
3.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person (as that
term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)), registered, required to be

 
registered, or exempted from registration with the Commission except as provided for in
Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R § 4.14(a)(Q9).

Respondents and their successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

L.

Respondents agree that neither they nor any of their successors and assigns or
agents or employees under their authority or control shall take any action or make
any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions
in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is
without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall
affect Respondents’: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions
in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party. Respondents and
their successors and assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all
of their agents and/or employees under their authority or control understand and
comply with this agreement.

Phillips Investment and CIC agree that they shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. trade on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined
in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C, § 1a(40));

b. enter into any transactions involving commodity interests (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(yy)) for Respondents’ own
accounts or for any accounts in which Respondents have a direct or indirect
interest;

c, have any commodity interests traded on their behalf;

d. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

e. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

f. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9); and/or

g. actas a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R.
§ 3.1(a)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)) registered, required to
be registered, or exempted from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9).

10

 
3. Phillips agrees that, for a period of five (5) years after the date of entry of this
Order, he shall not, directly or indirectly:

a. trade on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined
in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40));

b. enter into any transactions involving commodity interests for his own
accounts or for any accounts in which he has a direct or indirect interest;
and/or

c. have any commodity interests traded on his behalf.
4. Phillips agrees that he shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

b. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

c. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9); and/or

d. act as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R.
§ 3.1(a)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38)) registered, required to
be registered, or exempted from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9).

Cooperation with monitor: Respondents shall cooperate with the monitor as appropriate
to provide such information as the monitor deems necessary and appropriate to identify
Respondents’ customers, whom the monitor, in its sole discretion, may determine to
include in any plan for distribution of any restitution payments. Respondents shall
execute any documents necessary to release funds that they have in any repository, bank,
investment or other financial institution, wherever located, in order to make partial or
total payment toward the Restitution Obligation.

 

Partial Satisfaction: Respondents understand and agree that any acceptance by the
Commission or the monitor of any partial payment of Respondents’ Restitution
Obligation or CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of their obligation to make
further payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to
compel payment of any remaining balance.

Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondents satisfy in full their
Restitution Obligation and CMP Obligation as set forth in this Order, Respondents shall

11

 
provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to their
telephone number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christopher J. ‘Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

  

Pye

 

Dated: September 17, 2015

12

 
