UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

 

 

 

 

 

 

)
In the Matter of: )
| )
MIDWEST METALS ) —
EXCHANGE, LLC, and BRIAN ) CFTC Docket No. 15-15 Office of Proceedings
STEVEN EKASALA Proceedings Clerk
11:45 am, Feb 04, 2015
Respondents. ) \ ame yy,
)

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, AS AMENDED,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (““Commission” or “CFTC”) has reason to
believe that from in or about July 16, 2011 through March 2013 (the “relevant period”), Midwest
Metals Exchange, LLC (“Midwest”) and its controlling person, Brian Steven Ekasala
(“Ekasala”) (collectively “Respondents”), violated Section 4(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act
(“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 6(a) (2012). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine
whether Respondents engaged in violations set forth herein, and to determine whether any order
should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

I.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondents consent to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and
acknowledge service of this Order.’

 

' Respondents consent to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this

proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission
is a party; provided, however, that Respondents do not consent to the use of the Offer, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce
(Footnote continued)

 
III,
The Commission finds the following:
A, SUMMARY

During the relevant period, Respondents violated Section 4(a) of the Act by offering to
enter into, entering into, confirming the execution of, and conducting an office and business in
the United States for the purpose of soliciting, accepting orders for, and otherwise dealing in
illegal, off-exchange retail commodity transactions. Specifically, the transactions were financed
precious metals transactions with individual investors. Ekasala is directly liable for such
violations, and he is also liable as the controlling person of Midwest. For these transactions,
Midwest received commissions and fees totaling $322,852.71.

B. RESPONDENTS

Midwest Metals Exchange, LLC is a Florida limited liability company formed in
January 2010 and it has been inactive since September 2014. Its principal place of business was
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Midwest was a telemarketing firm that solicited retail customers to
invest in financed precious metals transactions. Midwest has never been registered with the
Commission in any capacity. |

Brian Steven Ekasala is a resident of Lake Worth, Florida, Ekasala was the owner,
operator, and controlling person of Midwest. Ekasala was intermittently registered with the
Commission as an associated person between 1992 and 2008.

Cc, OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY

Hunter Wise Commodities, LLC (“Hunter Wise”) was formed as a California limited
liability company in July 2007 but was converted to a Nevada limited liability company in
October 2010. It held itself out on its website as “a physical commodity trading company,
wholesaler, market maker, back-office support provider, and finance company.” During the
relevant period, Hunter Wise executed and confirmed the execution of retail commodity
transactions involving gold, silver, platinum, palladium, and copper throughout the United States
using a network of telemarketing solicitors, such as Midwest, that it referred to as “dealers.”

D. FACTS

During the relevant period, Midwest was a telemarketing firm that solicited retail
customers to engage in financed precious metals transactions, Although Midwest also offered
precious metals and coins on a fully paid basis, the vast majority of its business was in financed

 

the terms of this Order. Nor do Respondents consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the
findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other
proceeding.

 
precious metals transactions. This Order relates to the financed precious metals transactions
executed through Hunter Wise.

Midwest telemarketers conducted nearly all of their solicitations by telephone. Ekasala,
the controlling person of Midwest, directly solicited customers of his own and supervised other
telemarketers involved in customer solicitations, When soliciting customers for financed
precious metals transactions executed through Hunter Wise, Ekasala and the other Midwest
telemarketers represented that to purchase a specific quantity of metal, the customer was required to
deposit thirty percent of the total metal value. Midwest represented that the customer would
receive a loan for the remaining percentage (e.g., 70%), and that the customer would have to pay
a finance charge on the loan. In addition, for each metal purchase, Midwest charged customers a
sales commission that ranged as high as thirty percent on the total metal value and a mark-up
on the spot price of the subject metal.

If the customer agreed to the transaction, Midwest confirmed the transaction and
directed the customer to send Midwest a lump sum payment, which represented the deposit on
the value of the total metal purchased, the commission amount, and the mark-up amount.

Upon receipt of those funds, Midwest sent the funds in their entirety to Hunter Wise, Hunter
Wise then remitted the commission and fees due back to Midwest. During the relevant period,
Midwest received $322,852.71 in commissions and fees for the retail financed precious metals
transactions the firm executed through Hunter Wise.

Neither Midwest nor Hunter Wise bought, sold, loaned, stored, or transferred any
physical metals for these financed precious metals transactions. Likewise, neither Midwest,
nor Hunter Wise actually delivered any precious metals to any customers. Instead, Hunter
Wise managed exposure on these transactions using derivatives in margin trading accounts
with several entities. CFTC v. Hunter Wise Commodities, LLC, No, 12-81311-CIV, 749 F.3d
967 (S.D. Fla. May 22, 2014),

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION
A, Relevant Statutory Background

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010,
Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010) ("the Dodd-Frank Act") amended the Commodity
Exchange Act to add, among other things, new authority over certain leveraged, margined, or
financed retail commodity transactions, including authority to prohibit fraud in connection with
such transactions.

Section 742(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act added Section 2(c)(2)(D) to the Act.” Section
2(c)(2)(D) broadly applies to any agreement, contract, or transaction in any commodity that is
entered into with, or offered to (even if not entered into with), a non-eligible contract

 

* Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act became effective July 16, 2011.

 
participant ("non-ECP") or non-eligible commercial entity on a leveraged or margined basis,
or financed by the offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting in concert with the offeror or
counterparty on a similar basis. 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D)(i). Section 2(c)(2)(D) further provides
that such an agreement, contract, or transaction shall be subject to Sections 4(a), 4(b), and 4b
of the Act "as if the agreement, contract, or transaction was a contract of sale of a commodity
for future delivery.” 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)2)(D)Giii).

Section 2(c)(2)(D)(it) of the Act, excepts certain transactions from Section 2(c)(2)(D).
Section 2(c)(2)(D)qi)(I])(aa) excepts a contract of sale that "results in actual delivery within
28 days or such other longer period as the Commission may determine by rule or regulation
based upon the typical commercial practice in cash or spot markets for the commodity
involved."* Section 2(c)(2)(D)(ii)(III)(bb) excepts a contract of sale that creates an
enforceable obligation to deliver between a seller and a buyer that have the ability to deliver
and accept delivery, respectively, in connection with the line of business of the seller and
buyer.

The Commission has stated that the determination of whether "actual delivery" has
occurred within the meaning of Section 2(c)(2)(D)(ii)(I1D(aa) requires a consideration of
evidence beyond the four corners of the contract documents. This interpretation of the
statutory language is based on Congress's use of the word "actual" to modify "delivery" and
on the legislative history of Section 2(c)(2)(D)Gi)(ID) (aa). Consistent with this interpretation,
in determining whether actual delivery has occurred within 28 days, the Commission employs
a functional approach and examines how the agreement, contract, or transaction is marketed,
managed, and performed, instead of relying solely on language used by the parties in the
agreement, contract, or transaction.” Unless the Commission provides otherwise, the 28 days
for actual delivery is 28 days from the date the agreement, contract, or transaction is confirmed
to the buyer or seller, typically, a retail customer.

 

* As is relevant to this matter, Section 1a(18)(xi) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § La(18)(xi) (2012),
defines an individual eligible contract participant as a person who has amounts invested on a
discretionary basis, the aggregate of which is in excess of $10,000,000, or which is in excess
of $5,000,000 and who enters into the agreement, contract, or transaction in order to manage
the risk associated with an asset owned or liability incurred, or reasonably likely to be owned
or incurred, by the individual.

* The Commission has not adopted any regulations permitting a longer actual delivery period
for any commodity pursuant to Section 2(c)(2)(D)Gi)(1D(aa) of the Act. Accordingly, the 28
day actual delivery period set forth in this provision remains applicable to all commodities.

> See Retail Commodity Transactions Under Commodity Exchange Act, 76 Fed, Reg. 77,670
(Dec. 14, 2011)

 
Other than these exceptions, Congress did not express any intent to limit the reach of
Section 2(c)(2)(D). Rather, in enacting the statute Congress expressed its intent that Section
2(c)(2)(D) should be applicable to a broad range of agreements, contracts, and transactions.

Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act applies to all agreements, contracts, and transactions
entered into with, or offered to, non-ECPs on a leveraged or margined basis, or financed by
the offeror, the counterparty, or a person acting in concert with the offeror or counterparty on a
similar basis, as those terms are commonly used in the industry,

B. The Commission's Jurisdiction

Respondents offered precious metals transactions to, and entered into such transactions
with, persons who were not eligible contract participants or eligible commercial entities.
Generally, Respondents' customers were unsophisticated, individual investors who did not
meet the $10 million discretionary investment threshold to be considered ECPs. Moreover,
Respondents offered and entered into such transactions on a margined or leveraged basis, or
financed by Midwest or Hunter Wise, which acted in concert with Respondents. Respondents’
retail financed precious metals transactions fall squarely within the Commission's jurisdiction
under Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act.

Respondents' retail financed precious metals transactions executed through Hunter
Wise did not result in actual delivery to the customer. As found by the district court and
affirmed by the Eleventh Circuit in Hunter Wise, Hunter Wise had no actual metal to deliver.
Hunter Wise, Case No. 9:12-cy-81311-DMM, slip op. at 12-14, 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 35770
(S.D. Fla., Feb. 19, 2014) (order granting summary judgment); U.S. CFTC vy. Hunter Wise
Commodities, LLC, 749 F.3d 967, 982 (1 1" Cir, 2014). Respondents' transactions are not
excepted from the Commission's jurisdiction under Section 2(c)(2)(D)Gi)(HD of the Act.

C, Respondents Violated Section 4(a) of the Act: legal, Off-Exchange Transactions

As stated above, retail commodity transactions within the scope of Section 2(c)(2)(D)
of the Act are subject to enforcement under Section 4(a) of the Act, among other provisions, as
if such transactions are commodity futures contracts. Section 4(a) of the Act makes it unlawful
for any person to offer to enter into, enter into, execute, confirm the execution of, or conduct
an office or business in the United States for the purpose of soliciting, or accepting any order
for, or otherwise dealing in any transaction in, or in connection with, a commodity futures
contract, unless such transaction is made on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that has
been designated or registered by the CFTC as a contract market or derivatives transaction
execution facility for the specific commodity.

Respondents offered to enter into, entered into, and confirmed the execution of retail
financed precious metals transactions. Respondents also conducted an office and business in
the United States for the purpose of soliciting, accepting orders for, and otherwise dealing in
retail financed precious metals transactions. None of the retail financed precious metals
transactions were conducted on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that has been

 
designated or registered by the CFTC as a contract market or derivatives transaction execution
facility for precious metals. Respondents therefore violated Section 4(a) of the Act.

D. Midwest is Liable for the Violations of its Agents

Midwest is liable for the violations of its agents, including Ekasala. Under Section
2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C, § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), as well as Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2
(2013), a principal is strictly liable for the violations of its agents made within the scope of the
agents' employment. Rosenthal & Co. v. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986). Ekasala,
along with other Midwest telemarketers, were agents of Midwest, and in the scope of their
employment they violated Section 4(a) of the Act. Midwest is therefore liable for these
violations.

E. Ekasala Is Liable as the Controlling Person Under Section 13(b) of the Act for
Midwest's Violations

Ekasala is directly liable for violations of Section 4(a) of the Act. In addition, Ekasala
directly controlled Midwest and directly and knowingly induced Midwest's conduct
constituting violations of the Act; therefore, pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§ 13c(b) (2012), Ekasala is liable for Midwest 's violations of Section 4(a) of the Act. Section
13(b) of the Act states that a controlling person of an entity is liable for the violations of that
entity, provided that the controlling person knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, the
violations, or provided that the controlling person did not act in good faith. "A fundamental
purpose of Section [13(b)] is to allow the Commission to reach behind the corporate entity to
the controlling individuals of the corporation and to impose liability for violations of the Act
directly on such individuals as well as the corporation itself." CFTC v. R.J. Fitzgerald & Co.,
Inc., 310 F.3d 1321, 1334 (11th Cir. 2002) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted),
cert, denied, 543 U.S. 1034 (2004).

To establish controlling person liability under Section 13(b), the Division must show
both (1) control; and (2) lack of good faith or knowing inducement of the acts constituting the
violation. Jn re First Nat’l Trading Corp., [1992-1994 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep.
(CCH) ¥ 26,142 at 41,787 (CFTC Jul. 20, 1994), affd without opinion sub nom. Pick v.
CFTC, 99 P.3d 1139 (6th Cir. 1996). To establish the first element, control, a defendant must
possess general control over the operation of the entity principally liable. See, eg, RJ
Fitzgerald, 310 F.3d at 1334 (recognizing an individual who "exercised the ultimate choice-
making power within the firm regarding its business decisions" as a controlling person).
Evidence that a defendant is an officer, founder, principal, or the authorized signatory on the
company's bank accounts indicates the power to control a company. In re Spiegel, [1987-1990
Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 24,103 at 34,767 (CFTC Jan. 12, 1988). The
Division must also show that a defendant possessed specific control, which is "the power or
ability to control the specific transaction or activity upon which the primary violation was
predicated." Monieson v CFTC, 996 F.2d 852, 860 (7th Cir. 1993) (internal quotation marks
and citation omitted). The defendant does not need to participate in or benefit from the
wrongdoing; the issue is whether the defendant has the power to address the illegal conduct.

 
/d. (finding that, in a trade allocation case, the fact that the defendant could fire or discipline
responsible employees, end the placement of orders without numbers as soon as the defendant
knew of it, or order a full investigation was sufficient to show specific control).

With respect to control, Ekasala was the owner and operator of Midwest. He managed
the day-to-day operations, hired employees, supervising the solicitation of retail customers and
engaging in solicitations himself. Ekasala was the ultimate decision maker and controlled all
aspects of Midwest’s business. Ekasala had both general control over Midwest and specific
control over the conduct underlying Midwest's violations, i.e., Midwest offering to enter into,
entering into, and confirming the execution of retail financed precious metals transactions, and
Midwest conducting an office and business in the United States for soliciting, accepting, and
otherwise dealing in retail financed precious metals transactions.

In addition to control, the Division must show the controlling person knowingly
induced, directly or indirectly, the acts constituting the violation or did not act in good faith.
To show knowing inducement, the Division must show that a defendant had actual or
constructive knowledge of the core activities that constituted the violation and allowed the
activities to continue. Jn re Spiegel, [1987-1990 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH)
at 34,767. To show lack of good faith, the Division must show that a defendant did not have
an adequate system of internal supervision, or that a defendant did not enforce such system
with reasonable diligence. Monieson, 996 F.2d at 860.

Ekasala had actual knowledge that Midwest's business was in off-exchange, retail
financed precious metals transactions, because it was the basic nature or essence of the firm’s
business activities. He also allowed the business to continue, Thus, Ekasala knowingly
induced the conduct in violation of Section 4(a) of the Act. Moreover, Ekasala also did not act
in good faith, because he failed to have in place an adequate supervisory system to ensure that
the off-exchange leveraged precious metals transactions that Midwest Metals pitched to
customers were fully compliant with the requirements of the CEA. Therefore, in addition to
being directly liable for his personal violations of Section 4(a) of the Act, he is liable as a
controlling person for Midwest Metals’ violations of Section 4(a).

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the relevant period,
Respondents violated Section 4(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a).

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondents have submitted the Offer in which they, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledge receipt of service of this Order;

 
Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

Waive:

L. the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. a hearing;

3. all post-hearing procedures;

4. judicial review by any court;

5, any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s

staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C, § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by
the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2013), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding;

7. any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub, L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112,
204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any

other relief;

Stipulate that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondents have consented in the Offer; and

Consent, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1, makes findings by the Commission that Respondents violated Section 4(a) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a);

2. orders Respondents to cease and desist from violating Section 4(a) of the Act,
7 U.S.C. § 6(a);
3. orders Respondents, jointly and severally, to pay restitution in the amount of

three hundred twenty-two thousand eight hundred fifty-two dollars and
seventy-one cents ($322,852.71), plus post-judgment interest;

 
4, orders Respondents, jointly and severally, to pay a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), plus post-judgment interest;

5. orders that Respondents be permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly,
engaging in trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term
is defined in Section la of the Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. § 1a), and all registered
entities shall refuse them trading privileges; and

6. orders Respondents and their successors and assigns to comply with the
conditions and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII
of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VII.
ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A, Respondents shall cease and desist from violating Section 4(a) of the Act,
7 ULS.C.§ 6(a). :
B. Midwest and Ekasala, jointly and severally, shall pay restitution in the amount of

three hundred twenty-two thousand eight hundred fifty-two dollars and seventy-one cents
($322,852.71) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (collectively, the
"Restitution Obligation"), Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the Restitution Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill
rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2006).

Respondents shall: make their payments of the Restitution Obligation under this Order to
Melanie Damian, Esq., the corporate monitor appointed by the court in CFTC v, Hunter Wise
Commodities, LLC, No. 12-81311-CIV (S.D, Fla. Feb, 25, 2013) ("Hunter Wise Corporate
Monitor"), Respondents shall make such payments in the name of the "Midwest Metals
Exchange (Hunter Wise Transactions) Settlement Fund," and shall send such payments by
electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check, or bank
money order to Melanie Damian, Esq., Damian & Valori LLP, 1000 Brickell Ave., Ste. 1020,
Miami, FL, 33131, under a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondents and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondents shall simultaneously transmit copies
of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.
To the extent any funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of Respondents Restitution
Obligation, such funds shall be transferred to the Hunter Wise corporate monitor.

C, Respondents shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “CMP

 
Obligation”). Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning ten days
after the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2006). Respondents
shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified
check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order, If payment is to be made other than by
electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AMZ 341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-5644

Fax: (405) 954-1620

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondents shall contact Nikki

Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall fully
comply with those instructions. Respondents shall accompany payment of the CMP Obligation
with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondents and the name and docket number of
this proceeding. Respondents shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the
form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three
Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C, 20581 and to Senior Trial Attorney
Todd Kelly, CFTC, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

D. Respondents are permanently prohibited from engaging, directly or indirectly, in
trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section la of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la), and all registered entities shall refuse them trading privileges;

E, Respondents and their successors and assigns shall comply with the following
undertakings as consented to and set forth in the Offer:

l. Public Statements: Respondents agree that neither they nor any of their successors
and assigns, or agents or employees under their authority or control shall take any action
or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions
in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a
factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondents’:
(i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions in other proceedings to
which the Commission is not a party. Respondents and their successors and assigns shall
undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of their agents and/or employees under
their authority or control understand and comply with this agreement.

10

 
2. Respondents agree that they shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. enter into any transactions involving commodity futures, options on
commodity futures, commodity options (as that term is defined in Regulation
1.3(hh), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3Chh)), security futures products, swaps (as that term is
defined in Section 1a(47) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(47), and as further
defined by Regulation 1.3(xxx), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(xxx)), and/or foreign
currency (as described in Section 2(c)(2)(B) and 2(c)(2)(C)() of the Act, 7
USS.C, § 2(c)(2)(B) and 2(c)(2)(C)(i)) ("forex contracts") for their own
personal account(s) or for any account(s) in which they have a direct or
indirect interest;

b. have any commodity futures, options on commodity futures, commodity
options, security futures products, swaps, and/or forex contracts traded on
Respondents’ behalf;

ce. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving commodity
futures, options on commodity futures, commodity options, security futures
products, swaps, and/or forex contracts;

d. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity futures, options on commodity futures,
commodity options, security futures products, swaps, and/or forex contracts;

e. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Commission Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9); and/or

f. act as a principal (as that term is defined in Commission Regulation 3.1(a),

17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person (as that

term is defined in Section la of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a) registered, exempted from
registration, or required to be registered with the Commission except as provided

for in Commission Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9).

Cooperation with the Hunter Wise Corporate Monitor: Respondents shall cooperate with
the Hunter Wise corporate monitor as appropriate to provide such information as the
Hunter Wise corporate monitor deems necessary and appropriate to identify Respondents’
customers. Respondents shall execute any documents necessary to release funds that they
have in any repository, bank, investment or other financial institution, wherever located,
in order to make partial or total payment toward the Restitution Obligation.

Cooperation with the Commission: Respondents shall cooperate fully and expeditiously

with the Commission, including the Commission's Division of Enforcement, and any
other governmental agency in this action, and in any investigation, civil litigation, or

ll

 
administrative matter related to the subject matter of this action or any current or future
Commission investigation related thereto.

H. Partial Satisfaction: Respondents understand and agree that any acceptance by the
Commission or the Hunter Wise corporate monitor of partial payment of Respondents’
Restitution Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of their obligation to make further
payments pursuant to this Order or a waiver of the Commission's right to seek to compel
payment of any remaining balance.

I. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondents satisfy in full their
Restitution Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Ekasala shall provide written
“notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to his telephone number and
mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christopher iv Kirkpatricl :
Secretary of the Commission

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

             

Dated: February 4, 2015

12

 
