UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

 

)
_U. S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE )
‘COMMISSION, ) .
- 100 F. Street, NE ) -
Washington, D.C. 20549-6030 dy.
- Plaintiff, ) Case: 1:07-cv-01750
_)° Assigned To : Lamberth, Royce C.
5 Ws . ) Assign. Date : 10/1/2007
ee - d. Description: General Civil
YORK INTERNATIONAL CORP. )_
631 South Richland Ave. ).
York, PA 17403 ) -
).
Defendant. )
! | )
COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), alleges
that: | 7
SUMMARY
_ 1. . York International Corporation (“York International” or the “Company”),
_ and certain of its subsidiaries, violated the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal
controls p provisions of the F oreign Corupt Practices Act (the “F CPA”) oy making illicit -
: payments to secure and maintain business opportunities v worldwide. |
2 : F rom 2000 to 2003, York International’s Dubai subsidiary authorized and
: made approximately $647, 110 in kickback payments in connection with its sale of
humanitarian goods to Iraq under the United Nations Oil for Food Program (the
Program’ . Although the payments \ were characterized as “after-sales service fees,” no»

bona fide services were actually performed. The Program provided humanitarian relief to
the Iraqi population during the time that Iraq was subject to international trade sanctions.

Traq could only purchase necessary humanitarian goods and related services through a

. UN. escrow account. However, the kickbacks paid in connection with York
International’s subsidiary’s sale of goods to Iraq bypassed the escrow account and were
instead paid by a third party to Iraqi-vontrolled aécounts in countries such as J ordan. ‘The
company received apptoximately $931 ,318 in net iofits for the six transactions for | .
which it paid kickbacks. ve! | |

_3.. In 2003 and 2004, York International's Delaware subsidiary, York Air |

, Conditioning and Refrigeration, Ine. CYACR’) paid aiiproximuitely $522,500 to an
intermediary while knowing that most of the money was intended to bribe United Arab
Emirate officials to secure contracts in connection with the construction of a
government-owned luxury hotel called the Conference Palace. These payments were
made to influence acts and decisions by the governmetit officials in awarding YACR =
lucrative contracts. Altogether, thirteen ct payments were made on this project,
ranging from’ $1,700 to $320, 000, totaling approximately $550,000. The total amount of

. YACR sales revenue relating to orders on the project w was appfoximately $3.7 million.

AL From September 7 2001 trough 2006, York International, through cc certain

oO of its subsidiaries, made over or $7. 5 nillion in illicit payments to's secure ‘orders on certain : ae

commereial-and government proj jects i in the Middle East, India, China, Nigeria and -

Europe. York International’s subsidiaries devised elaborate schemes to conceal kickback. - |

- payments to certain individuals who had enough influence to secure contracts for York _

International’s subsidiaries. These illicit payments were referred to internally as
“consultancy payments;” however, similar to the payments made under the Oil for Food
Program, no bona fide services were performed. |
5. “York International subsidiaries made a total of 854 improper consultancy :
payments on approximately 774 contracts and received approximately $8,0 17,8 14 in net -
profits for these contracts Kickbacks -were made on more than 302 ojects involving. .
government end-users, such as ‘government owned companies, public hospitals or -
schools. Including the net profits on the Oil for Food Program transactions, York
. “International received net profits of “approximately $8, 949, 132 on contracts involving ae
illicit payments a
6: | York International violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 7
1934 (the “Exchange Act”) by paying bribes to officials of the United Arab Bmirates |
, (“UAE”) to secure business. York International failed to accurately record i in its books |
and records the kickbacks that were e authorized for payment to Iraq, the bribes in the
UAE, and the illicit consultancy payments made in the Middle East, Africa, Asia and
Europe in violations of Section 13(6(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. York International also /
failed to devise and maintain a system of internal i accounting controls to detect and |
| Prevent « each of th those illicit it payments in violations of Section 32H). oo : |
oe "JURISDICTION 2
1. . “Thig Court has 2 jurisdiction over this action. under Sections 21(d), 210),
and 27 of the Exchange Act tT 15 US. C. 8. 78u(0), T8u(e) and 78aa]. York International, _ |
a directly 0 or indirectly, made use eof the means or instrumentalities of i interstate commerce, ©
of the mails, or of the facilities of: a national | securities exchange in connestion oe

transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint. -
—8. » Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act
[15 U.S.C. § 78aal, because York International does business i in this judicial district and
certain acts or transactions constituting the violations by York Intemational occurred i in
this district. | | |

: 7: DEFENDANT 7

| 9 - York International Corporation, a global provider of heating,
ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration product and services, is headquartered i in
‘York, Pennsyvani The. company’ s common. stock. was. registered with the Commission,

| pursuant to Section 1206) [is U. S.C. § 781(b)] of the Exchange ‘Act and was: listed on the

New York: Stock Exchange ¢ NYS ”) until it was. s acquired by Johnson Controls, Inc..

: (“Johnson Controls”) on December 9, 2005 and became a wholly owned. subsidiary of’
oJ ohnson Controls. J ohnson Controls trades on the NYSE. under the symbol J CL
| RELEVANT ENTITIES | |
, 10. | York Air Conditioning and Refrigeration, Inc. “eracrey ya at all
relevant ‘timies'a Delaware cotporation and was a wholly-owned subsidiary of York.
: International YACR has branch offices in Dubai a and. Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
‘The Dubai office serves as the headquarters for York International’s Middle East
operations: Many of the itidividuals. who were complicit in the Oi for Food kickbacks,
, the bribes to UAE government officials, and the improper consultancy payments vere -
- employees of YACR’s Dubai and Abu Dhabi branches. a
; i. “York Air Conditioning and Reftgeraton FZE 5 (“York F ZE” is a.
woly owned subsidiary of YACR. York’ FZE is based i in the. Jebel Ali Fre ree Zone of

Dubai. York FZE was the contracting party in the Oil for Food transactions.
12. York Middle East is the business unit within York International that is

~ responsible for handling all Middle East business. It is not a separate corporate entity.

- 43.0 York Refrigeration India Ltd. (“York India”) is.a corporation organized

under the laws of India and is owned by York International Denmark subsidiaries. York —
India inade certain illicit consultancy payments. to's secure e business:
‘14. York United Kingdom (“York UK”) i isa a wholly owned subsidiary of

York International. York UK made certain illicit consultaricy payments to'secure

_-’ businéss.

15.0 York Refrigeration Marine (China) Ltd. (YRMC”) is a Subsidiary ofa .
York International Denmark subsidiary. YRME sells air conditioning and refrigeration
equipment to shipbuilders and also to shipyards, YRMC made certain illicit consultancy
‘payments to secure business. | | |
| FACTS
| I | The United Nations Oil for Food Program

16. On August 2, 1990, the government of Iraq, under Saddam Hussein,

oe invaded Kuwait. F our-days later the United Nations Security Council voted to enact U:N: .

| : . Resolution 661, which prohibited member states. from: wading i in any Iraqi commodities
| . OF produets. ‘The United Nations continu t ‘to cakes these sanctions vintil 2003. :
We On April 14, 1995, the United Nations Sécmity Council adopted |
. Resolution 986, which authorized the Government of Iraq to sell oil on the condition that
the proceeds of all of its oil sales be deposited ina bank account monitored by the United

‘Nations and used only to purchase designated humanitarian goods for the benefit of the
Iraqi people. In May 1996, the Government of Iraq entered into a written Memorandum
of Understanding to implement Resohition 986. |

18. | The United Nations Office of Iraq Prograin, Oil for Food (the “Oil for

- Food Program” or “Program”) was subsequently established to administer Iraq’s sale of
oil and purchase of humanitarian goods by Iraq. A special bank account was established ~
at a bank in New York (the “UN Esctow Account”) t6 handle the transactions. The
United Nations’ economic sanctions on Iraq remained in place for all trade and |
"transactions not authorized by the Oil for Food Program.

19, - Starting in the middle of 2000, the Iraqi government made a concerted :
effort to subvert the Program by demanding secret kickbacks from its humanitarian goods -
“suppliers. ‘Although contracts entered into pursuant to the Program were subject to UN +
- review and approval, the Program gave Iraq discretion to select the companies from
which it purchased goods. “A humanitarian supplier would submit a bid for the sale of its:
‘goods. After the Iraqi ministry would accept the bid, the ministry would inform the
supplier of the requirement that the supplier pay a secret kickback in the form of an

“After-Sales Service Fee” (“ASSF”) to fraqi in order to win the contract. The Iraqi

. ministry would also inform the supplier that the ASSF would have to be paid prior to the. oo

goods entering into the country, 0 or the. goods would be: stopped at the border until the
kickback was paid. | |

20. Initially when this scheme first began, suppliers met with the Tragi
ministries in person anid signed a. side agreement acknowledging. that the supplier would -

pay the kickback! By October 2000, this fee was usually ten percent of the total contract °

 

r "The side agreement was not t provided to the UN when the Oil for Food contract was submitted and
approved. ‘This was in violations of the Program and U.S. and international trade sanctions against Iraq.
_ value. Later in the scheme, everyone understood that the ten percent would have to be
. paid, thus, side agreements -were no longer needed - the supplier would simply increase
its original contract bid by ten percent 7
21. The supplier would then submit its contract with the inflated contract price.
to the UN for approval, and:not disclose the ten percent kickback, which was in violations
of the Program rules. The supplier would vay the ASSF to Iraq prior to shipping its
- goods. Afterwards, the. UN: Escrow Account would pay the supplier the inflated conte -
price for the goods, thus, unknowingly reimbursing the supplier for the ten 1 pereent that”
the supplier had already kicked back to Iraq. AS a result of this conduct, the UN Escrow | |
. Account lost the benefit of $1 billion.

22. | After the United States invaded Iraq i in 1 March 2003, at the request of the oI
provisional govemment the UN ceased Iraq’s ASSE scheme. The UN required that all’
pending contracts that had been inflated by ten percent be amended to reflect the true oe
contract value of the goods.

- IL: York Internationa’ Subsidiary Makes Hicit Payments to Iraq | |
23. York F ZE began participating in thé. Program in n approximately March
4 1999. It rétained a J ordan-based consillting firm to- act 2 as. its agent (“Agent”) i in the / =
bididing = The retention agreement with the Agent at that time was-not formalized . : -
in writing. The consulting firm was headed by a well-connected Iraqi citizen who resided ;
in Jordan. With the Agent’ s assistance, York FZE: secured three contracts under the 7
| Program from March 1999 to April 2000: prior to rag’ s demand i for kickbacks.
24. Ono or about September 20, 2000, the: Agent notified York FZE that it had

been awarded its fourth contract under the Progratn. The contract was for the sale of ai air
conditioner compressors (the “Compressor Contract”) to the Iraqi Ministry of Trade for
$1, 025, 800. However, shortly thereafter, the Agent informed York FZE that the Iraqi —
ministries had instituted anew policy requiring companies supplying humanitarian goods:
| under the Pro gram to pay an ASSF on each contract even though no after-sales services
would actually be. performed. ,
| 25. o Ta light of the n new Iraqi policy, the Agent advised YACR’s Middle Bast ,
- Regional Sales Manager (Regional Sales Manager’) that the Minisity 0 of Trade chad
requested that York FZE i increase its bid-on the Compressor Contract at had just been a -
, awarded i in September by tn percent, In a November 7, 2000 memorandum to the. :
Regionel Sales Manager, who was based in YACR’s Dubai branch, the Agent asserted
that the Agent could facilitate the “requested 10%” by. characterizing the payment asa |
| “performance bond. ” The Agent also. stated that the “York Name will not be i in 1 the
middle for such agreement [sic}.” , Further, the Agent suggested that if York PZB did not |

sign the. contract including the ten percent kickback, it could adversely impact York |

oo FZE’s reputation and its ability to obtain future business under the Pro gram.

26. That same: e day, the Regional Sales: Manager responded. in. writing stating
= that York FZE only wanted to conduct business i in faq in! full compliance with UN rales

7: -and regulations. Fe or unrelated reasons, . the Regional. Sales Manager: shortly thereafter - oo
transferred. out of the office. Jn late November 2000, the Regional Sales Manager turned :

over his sesponsiilites to a Dubai-based YACR area manager (“Area Manager”. On or
aboitt November 19 9 and 20, 2000, the Area Manager: and his supervisor, YACR Vice-

President and General Manager for. the Middle East ("Vice-Presiden %s met with the

Agent i in York FZE’s Dubai office. |
27. The Agent and York FZE agreed that the Agent would pay the ten percent
| kickback on York FZE’s behalf and that the Agent’ s commission would be increased to
- | ‘cover the payment. Onc or about November 19, 2000, the: Agent and ‘York FZE
- memorialized the agreement to increase the Agent’ S. commission from. between 3 and 4%
° ~ to 13. 3%. ‘When York FZE submitted the contract to. the: UN, it ‘inflated its contract price
by ten. n percent The Agent submitted an inflated i invoice t6 York FZE, which included

‘ihe ten percent kickback it ‘paid to the Ministry c of Trade on n behalf of York FZE. York

7 FZE paid the i invoice ‘knowing the ten percent was s kicked back to iraq on its behalf and

a described the ‘payment z as a “consultancy” payment i in its books and records.

28. The Agent paid ASSFs on York FZE’s behalf for five additional contracts
urider the Progtam, Bor these contracts, York FZE submitted inflated bids to the relevant

- Tragi ministries. The Agent typically deposited the kickback payinents in Jordanian

- banks designated by the Tragi ministries. The kickback payment. had to be made prior to

‘the déods being shipped to Iraq because Iraqi custom officials required proof of the
Kickback payment before the g00ds could enter the country. Therefore, the Agent made
the ASSF payment up front and ‘was later reimbursed, when York FZE received a -
disbursement from the UN Escrow Account. - : |

- 29, lh total, the > Agent pid approximately 36a, 1103 in improper payments on .
- behalf of York FZE. ok |

| - TL. “York Middle East and Numerous Other: York International Subsidiaries
a . Devise. Elaborate Schemes: to. Make HMlicit Consultancy Payments to Secure
Contracts ”

30. York International, through its subsidiaries, made numerous illicit:

payments to secure orders on certain commercial and’ government projects in the Middle.
East and elsewhere. York Middle East personnel in both the Dubai and Abu Dhabi
branches of YACR devised an elaborate scheme to conceal kickback payments to certain
- individuals who could influence their customers, such-as construction companies or other
end-users, to choose York products for their particular project, These payments, which
-. York Middle East internally referred to as “consultancy fees,” were made to a variety of 7
“recipients, including (1) employees of the end-user; 2) éimployees of technical

"engineering firms retained’ by end-users to provide design services; (3) employees. of

cos : contractors retained by, the end-users to camry out construction; (4) employees of technical oe

, engineering firms retained by contractors or other parties: ; and (5) contractor firms. ,
-.31. These consultancy payments Srere similar to the ASSF payments York
FZE paid under the Oil for Food Program because no bona fide consulting services were ”
actually perforined and the payments. were made to secure contracts. |
A. The Mechanics of the Scheme :
32. York International subsidiaries tised a number of different mechanisms to
funnel money to persons with authority to impact or secure business for. the company.

One mechanism involved the payment of cash, F or example, in the UAE, complicit sales. -

oe me people employed by YACR’s Dubai and Abu Dhabi branches arranged for. purported.

- contractors to generate and. submit bogus in invoices to 0 York Middle East. for ‘ ‘consulting
services” that the contractors had not actually performed. Fither the Dubai or Abu Dhabi :
. branch, depending on the location of the project, paid thei invoices. Afterwards, the
purported contractor gave an equal amount of cash to the branch sales people tess a sinall
fee. The sales people then used the-cash to pay customer-affiliated individuals to secure

‘contracts.

10
33. A second mechanism involved either the Dubai or Abu Dhabi branch of —
YACR directly wiring or sending a check for payment to-entities designated by customer
employees based on false invoices for purported “consulting services.”

34. A third mechanism used in other countties in the region, such as Eeypt —
Turkey and Bahrain, involved sales people (generally employees of the local: York

entity) arranging direct York F ZE. payments to be paid to consulting firms or contractors.

. designated bye customers. “These payments were described as. being for services rendered, a

, by these consultants and conéraétors in- changing design specifications so that they would: -
, be more favorable to York International.

B. Bribes Paid to UAE Officials for the Conference Palace Project

35. The Conference Palace i isa major hotel and convention complex built and

_ owned by the government of Abu Dhabi, UAE.. In 2003 and 2004, the Dubai-based Area ..

Manager who had a role in approving kickback payments under the Oil for Food Program

agreed to make payments, through an. intermediary (“Intermediary”) to UAE government mo

officials who had been appointed as members of the Conference Palace Hotel Executive .

-- Committee (the “Committee’ ). The Committee was established by a, government ¢ decree, te

and the members of: the Committee v were appointed by. the Crown Prince of. Abu Dhabi.

| | The Committee reported directly to Abu Dhabi’ s Ministry of Finance, ‘and operated vinder . oS
ihe Ministry’ s direction and control. The Coinmitte had authority to make decisions on. ”

~ awarding contracts to suppliers, such as YACR. |

36. : In March. 2003, the Area Manager directed the Abu Dhabi branch to make oe

- the first payment in connection with this project toa United Arab Emirates consulting |

| firm which employed t the Intermediary. The Area a Manager later arranged for twelve —

11
additional payments in connection with this project. In each case, the paymenits were
facilitated by local contractors or a distributor who agreed to submit false invoices to
: York Middle East. Once the invoices were paid, either a York Middle Bast salesman ot |
sales manager retrieved the cash from each contractor, often times: less a smal ‘fee, and |
passed it on to: the ‘Area Manager who then passed it on-to. the Intermediary for payment
to the Committee members. The Vice President (who approved the kickbacks under the
-Oil for Food Program) and YACR’s Dubai-based director of finance “F jnance Director”) -
also approved these payments. - | | a |

. : . 37. ‘Altogether, titeen improper payments were ‘made on this project, ‘ranging oo.
from $1, 700. to $320, 000, totaling approximately $550,000. “Approximately $522, 500 —
“was given to the intermediary while knowing that n most of 1 it was intended to bribe
members of the Committee. The total amount of York Middle East sales revenme relating
to orders for the Conference Palace project was approximately $3.7 million.
a C. Abu Dhabi Residential Complex Project

38, ‘The Abu Dhabi residential complex project i is representative of the

majority of the non-government projects where illicit payments were made: On this.

| ‘proj ect, YACR’s Abu Dhabi branch paid the engineering corisultant working. on. n behalf of a -
the énd-user to submit it technical designs that favored York equipment. Specifically, an -
Abu Dhabi branch sales manager arranged fora local contractor: (xo facilitated

. payments in connection witha another * project) to issue a false i invoice to York Middle East
| “fe approximately $2, 000. ‘After receiving the i invoice, the Abu Dhabi branch sent the
local contractor a. cheek for approximately $2000. The local contractor then gave the

| sales manager approximately $1,900 i in cash. The sales manager gave ‘the $1,900 to an

12
eimployee of an engineering firm, which the end-user had retained on the project. In turn,
the employee of the engineering firm prepared design specifications that favored York
“eqitipment to ensure York would win the contract. York then secured the contract.
/ -D. _ Distriet Cooling Utility Project | .
= : 39. York Middle. East supplies refrigeration products toa a large district cooling
- utility unity) in 1 the United Arab Emirates. The Utility, whieh is one of York Middle

a Bast’ s-major ‘customers in the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Qa, builds “district 7

oS - cooling” projects that provide chilled water to sections of various cities. The Utility i isa

~ public company with. shares listed on the Dubai Stock Exchange. ‘Starting in 1997, York
4 Middle East personnel agreed t to pay a Utility s senior executive (“Executive”) a
‘percentage of the revenue for all of York Middle East s Utility sales in order: to secure
- future business. From 2000 until November 2005 when the last payment was found, -
: York Middle East made eleven payments to entities in Burope on the West Indies that the .
“Executive designated. The payinents requested by the Executive typically amounted to
“seven percent of the value of York’s sales on Utility projects although it it varied from |

nothing. Up. to twelve percent. From 2000 to November 2005, ‘the eleven payments to”

- these entities ranged from approximately $15, 000 to $241, 500, and the total was

oS approximately $977, 000: The total amount of sales revenue associated with these oo

| payments v was approximately $12, 2 million.
a IV. - Ilicit Payments Made Outside the Middle East.
7 40. ‘The company’ s widespread practice of making kickback payments to

secure business was not: limited to the Middle East re gion. York International

13
subsidiaries also made numerous improper payments in India, China, Nigeria, Europe,
and. elsewhere. |

“AL York India Makes Illicit Payments to Secure Contracts

“Al, York International’s Indian subsidiary, York India, retained an agent
(indian Agent”) to represent York India in connection with orders for after-installation
. "service on equipment sold to the Indian Navy and to provide marketing and service

, support, An employee of the Indian Agent (oho for a a period v was simultaneously

— employed by York India) admitted that while employed by the Indian Agent, he routinely

- made | payments, in the-form of cash or gifts, to Indian Navy officials to secure business:

won, Those payments typically were less than $1,000; in value. From. 2000 to 2006, these

| ‘payments totaled approximately $132,500 on 21 5 orders. The $132,500 was taken out of
/ the approximately $180,000 in commission payments that York India paid to the Indian |
- Agent. ‘The related contracts generated revenues for York India of approximately $2.4
“million. |

7 B. : | York United Kingdom Makes Mlicit, Payments to Secure Contracts

7 42. York United Kingdom: (York UK") had two spare parts and installation

. we / Projects with the. Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation ¢ ‘NNPC’) in 2002 and 2005: ©

7 a York UK retained a Nigetian Agen (Nigerian Agent”) to provide site: supervision and

accommodations for the site engineers on 1 the two. contracts, The first NNPC order was

_ for $770, 000. Jn 2003, York UK paid the Nigerian Agent a $250, 000 ¢ commission for its

services, ‘which was approximately 30% of thie contract value. A September 2002 e- mail .

sent from the prineipal of the Nigerian Agent to'a York UK manager indicates that the

commission payment is being shared with an official at NNPC.

14
43. The second NNPC order was for $1.36 million and was signed by a
second York UK manager. The Nigerian Agent, which was to perform the same services .
-it performed on the previous contract, received a $370, 000 commission. Once. again, the -

commission was , approximately 30% of the contract value. The York UB. manager :

a admitted that the amount paid. to the Nigerian Agent was unusually high given the

services the Nigerian Agent was retaitied to perform. York UK has subsequently
__ terminated its agency agreetaent with the Nigerian Agent and has decided not to bidon
_. future contracts with NNPC.. : el

C.: York Refrigeration Marine China Makes Illicit Payments to. Secure ee
Contracts

44, York Reftgeiation Marine (China) Ted. CRMC), a subsidiary « of 2 a |

- York International Danish subsidiary, sells refigeration equipment to ship builders, and
| also to ship yards owned ‘by the Chinese government. From 2004 through 2006, YRMC -
made illicit ‘Payments to agents and other individuals, including Chinese government |
personnel at ship yards, without sufficient supporting documentation. The illicit
“payments were described as s commision, sales and marketing expendnaes or gifts and

entertainment t expenses. In. one instance, YRMC © Provided Chinese ship yard employees wy

io with: ‘lap top computers and ottiet dlectronies. In other ¢ cases, YRMC paid its. agent

i hundreds of thousands of dollars for nebulous and undocumented services. . All these. os
improper payments ¥ were made to retain or + maintain business. These Payments were
| approved by the local office i in Hone Kong ands were processed through York

International’s Denmark subsidiary.

15.
D. | Total Amount of Improper Consultancy Payments

45. From September 2001 through 2006, York International subsidiaries made
a total of 854 i improper Consultancy payments on approximately TT4 contracts. The
improper consultancy payments totaled approximately $7,5 00, 801: }

V. | . York International Violated the Anti-Bribery Provisions of the FCPA when L
- Its Subsidiary Paid Bribes to UAE Government Officials, SO,

46. York Intemational violated Section 30A of the Exchange Act when a
employees of i its US subsidiary, YACR, comruptly made payments through a an -
intermediary. to foreign officials of the United Arab Emirates for the purpose of obtaining .
or retaining business. - | | |
VL York vrai Fails to Maintain Adeqitate Internal Controls .

- AT York International failed to maintain a system of internal controls
- . sufficient to ensure that the company’s transactions were executed in sccordance with .
: management's authorization and to maintain: accountability for the company’ 'S. assets.
48. “As evidenced by @ the kickback payments made under the Oil for Food.
Program, w which violated UN rules and U. S. and international trade. sanctions, 2) the.
bribe payments to goverment officials i in connection with the Conference: Palace Hotel, . os

. : 6) the widespread practice of submitting and approving £ fake i invoices ss for so-called

boris
\

“consultants” who did not perform bona fide services, and (4) the illicit payments made
by various York International subsidiaries, York International lacked infernal controls
sufficient to detect or prevent a variety of illicit payment schemes by: certain of its U. s.

Middle Eastern, European, and Asian subsidiaries.
49. : While York International had corporate policies i in place to 5 address some

of these issues, the company delegated significant responsibilities to heads of geographic

16.
- régions, such as the Vice-President in the Middle East, for creating compliance controls
| and ensuring compliance with relevant laws, such as the FCPA. Although York |
. : International knew of endemic corruption problems.in the Middle East, in particular, it
| fo appeared to take on faith, without adequate confirming steps, that the Vice President was
oo “exercising his duties to manage compliance and control issues. ~
| . 50 : Further, York International knew, or had the means to easily lear, that the
"Middle East and other regions did not 3 follow consistent practices with regard to |
- 1 performing dite diligence i in. connection with agents and consultants. With respect to the
so- o-called ‘consultants” ho submitted fake i invoices. without performing bona fide |
/ services, no due diligence v was done. Many of the agents and consultants bad'no written.
sereement wi with a York International subsidiary, and others signed template agreements
- : that did not. specify the consultancy setvices that they purportedly were providing.
5 i. Local finance personnel accepted these contracts 2 as sufficient to support

payment to the purported consultants. The fake i invoices from the 3 purported consultants

likewise did not adequately specify services. “These contracts and i invoices were false:

a York International’s management had the ability. to. review ot cause internal audit to
. . “review these contract files and; had this been done, it would have been immediately ao
apparent tat the consultancy arangemenis were a sham. itis cleat that local finance a
: . osomel did not provide an independent internal control ‘etn, ine rather acquiesced
in questionable practices and docunieatation without critical review: : oe |
oo : 52. ; A 2002 internal audit of York Middle East: highlighted problems with its
internal controls. Specifically, the- auditor noted that the internal. controls ‘ ‘need

improvement” and expressed concerns with the financial reporting function. York’s 2004

17
self-assessment on fraud risks noted that many of York International’s “historical fraud
. issues” had occurred at “small locations with limited segregation duties.” Despite
- | knowledge of these risks, York International’s tanagement did not take adequate steps to
mo ‘strengthen its anti-corruption controls in problem aréas such as the Middle East, India,
: 2 ‘Nigeria anid China, |
a 53. ~ In sum, York Intemnational’s internal controls failures are evidenced by the
: “following: 1) the extent and duration of the illicit payments made by York International
- “subsidiaries, 2) the involvement of multiple subsidiaries i numerous managers and : .
. ~ employees, 3) the improper recording of these payments in York Intéinational’s books |
| - ‘and records, 4) the failure of York International's management to detect these
: ‘moguls, and 5) York Intemationa s failure to o implement controls after réceiving the
2002 internal audit report and 2004 self. assessment on fraud risk that highlighted the
problems. As a result, York International failed to devise and maintain an effective
2 system of intemal controls to prevent: or detect these violations of the F CPA, as required
. by Exchanige ‘Act Section 13(b)(2)(B). | |
- . VEL. York International Fails to Maintain its : Books and Records |

oe 54. | York International, through it its subsidiaries, made. numerous. illicit -

OES “payments for for the purpose of obtaining contracts in! nthe Middle! East, , Burope, Afica, and - /

a . “Asia rf the case of the Oil for r Food Program kickbacks, thee company’ S ‘books and

_ records did not reflect that a portion of the Agent's $ commission. n fees constituted

BS reimbursement for kickbacks the Agent made on York FZE’s behalf. Further, from 2001 |
oo through 2006, York International subsidiaries made’ numerous s illicit consultancy

payments baséd on false invoices in an effort to fiinnelt money. to persohs to secure

18:
business. The trne nature of these payments was not disclosed in the company’s books. |
and records. Accordingly, York International failed to. make and keep accurate books,
| -tecords and accounts as required by Exchange A Act Section 13(b)(2)(A)-
CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
violations of Section 30A of the Exchange ‘Act
. 55. Paragraphs 1 through 54 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference. _

7 56: - As described above, York International’s subsidiary corruptly offered,

| promised to to pay; or authorized i iMlicit payments to: a @ person, while knowing that all or a. .
. portion of those payments would be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, 10 |
7 foreign officials for the purposes of influencing their acts or ‘decisions i in their official

capacity inducing them to door omit to.do actions in violations of their lawful duties,”
: securing an improper advantage, or indueing such foreign officials to use their influence

with a foreign government or instrumentality thereof to assist York International in
. obtaining or retaining business... | | | | |
a7. By reason of the eforegoing, ¥ York International violated the anti-bribery |

- provisions 0 of. the FCPA, a as. codified at Section 30A of the 1e Exchange A Act t 15 U.S.C.

- _§78ae. uh.

‘SECOND CLAIM,
[violations of Section 136))(4) of the Bxchange Act]

58. Paragraphs I through 57 are’ erealleged and incorporated by reférence.

19
59. As described above, York International, through its officers, agents. and
subsidiaries, failed to keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, |
" accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets.

60. By reason of the foregoing, York International violated Section
. BHEKL-AY of the Bxchange ‘Act et 15U US.C.§ T8m()2)A)-
ce "THIRD CLAIM |

a iolations of Section 1300)2)B) of the Exchange Act]
61 "Paragraphs 1 | through 60 aré @ re-alleged and. incorporated by reference, a —
a 62. As described above, with respect to ‘iMicit payments made i in connection ms
~ with the Ccinferince Palace Project and with sales to Iraq and i in other counties York . :
; International failed to devise and asia a system of internal accounting contiols
. sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) payments were made in accordance .
with management's general or specific authorization; and (ii) payments vere recorded as
“necessary to maintain accountability for its assets. | |

63. By reason. of the foregoing, York Intemational violated Section .
130 @,) of the exchange Act us UL S. Cc. § 78m(b)2)B)] |

_ PRAYER FOR RELIEF 2

| WHEREFORE, the Cominission respetflly requests that this Court enter: a final L . - : a

. judgment:

| AL | ‘Permanently restraining and enjoining York International from: violating ° - .

Sections 30A, 13QVA) and 3O)QNB) of the Exchange Act sus S.C. §§ 78ddel, eo

TBn(bY2KA), and 17n(OV2)B)

20
'B. Ordering York International to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment

interest, wrongfully obtained as a result of its illegal conduct;

. c. _ Ordering York International to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section

210) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S. C: § 78u(d)(3)]; and —

a D.. Granting such further relief as the Couit may deém just and appropriate

‘Dated: September 1 . 2007

| Respectfully submitted,

 

 

‘Cheryl I. Se Fo. Bar No. W221? )

Tracy L. Pfice

'N. Creola Harry

Attorneys for Plaintiff,

‘US. Securities and Exchange Commission

100 F Street, NE >

‘Mail Stop 6030: SPI

Washington, DC 20549- 6030
(202) 551-4403. (Scarboro)

21
