 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
~ SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

Case No. 19-20284-CR-SMITH

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
vs.
ARMENGOL ALFONSO CEVALLOS DIAZ,

Defendant. ~

PLEA AGREEMENT -

The United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division,
Fraud Section and Money Laundering & Asset Recovery: Section
(collectively, the “Government” or. the “United States”), and —
Armengol Alfonso Cevallos Diaz (hereinafter referred to as the
“defendant”) enter into the following agreement:

1. The defendant agrees to plead guilty to Counts 1 and 2
of the Indictment filed in this case, which charge the defendant
with conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States, in
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, and
conspiracy to launder money, in violation of Title 18, United
States Code, Section 1956(h).

2. The defendant is aware that the sentence will be imposed

by the Court after considering the Federal Sentencing Guidelines

 
 

and Policy Statements (hereinafter the “Sentencing Guidelines”),
as well as other factors enumerated in Title 18, United States
Code, Section 3553(a). The defendant acknowledges and understands
that the Court will compute an advisory sentence under the
Sentencing Guidelines and that the applicable guidelines will be
determined by the Court relying in part on the results of a Pre-
Sentence Investigation by the Court’s probation office, which
investigation will commence after the guilty plea has been entered.
The defendant is also aware that, under certain circumstances, the
Court may depart from the advisory sentencing guideline range that
it has computed, and ‘may raise or lower that advisory sentence
under -the Sentencing Guidelines. The defendant is further aware
and understands that the Court is required to consider the advisory.
guideline range determined under the Sentencing Guidelines but is
not bound to impose that sentence; the Court is permitted to tailor
the ultimate sentence in light of other statutory concerns, and
such sentence may be either more severe or less severe than the
Sentencing Guidelines’ advisory sentence. Knowing these facts,
the defendant understands and acknowledges that the Court has the
authority to impose any sentence within and up to the statutory ©
maximum authorized by law for the offenses identified in paragraph

1 and that the defendant may not withdraw the plea solely as a

result of the sentence imposed.

 

 
 

3. The defendant also understands and acknowledges that for
the charge in the Indictment of. conspiracy to commit an offense
against the United States in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 371, the Court may impose a statutory maximum term

of imprisonment of up to five years, followed by a term of

. Supervised release of up to three years, In addition to.a term

of imprisonment and supervised release, the Court may impose a
fine of up to $250,000, or twice the gross pecuniary gain or twice
the gross pecuniary loss derived from the offense, whichever is
greater, and the Court may also order forfeiture and restitution.

4, The defendant also understands and acknowledges that for
the charge in the Indictment of conspiracy to launder money in
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h), the
Court may impose a statutory maximum term of imprisonment of up to
20 years, followed by a term of supervised release of up to five .

years. In addition to a term of imprisonment and supervised

release, the Court may impose a fine of up to $500,000, or twice

 

the value of the property involved in the transactions for which
the defendant conspired to launder, whichever is greater, and the
Court may also order forfeiture and restitution.

5. The defendant further understands and acknowledges that,

in addition to any sentence imposed under paragraphs 3 and 4 of

this agreement, a - special assessment in the amount of’ $100 per

 

 
 

3. The defendant also understands and acknowledges that for
the charge in the Indictment of conspiracy to commit an offense
against the United States in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 371, the Court may impose a statutory maximum term
of imprisonment of up to five years, followed by a term of
_Supervised release of up to three years. In addition to.a term
of imprisonment and supervised release, the Court may impose a
fine of up to $250,000, or twice the gross pecuniary gain or twice
the gross pecuniary loss derived from the offense, whichever is
greater, and the Court may also order forfeiture and restitution.

4. The defendant also understands and acknowledges that for
.the charge in the Indictment of conspiracy to launder money in
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h), the
Court may impose a statutory maximum term of imprisonment of up to
20 years, followed by a term of supervised release of up to five
years. In addition to a term of imprisonment and supervised
release, the court may impose a fine of up to $500,000, or twice
the value of the property involved in the transactions for which
the defendant conspired to launder, whichever is greater, and the
Court may also order forfeiture and restitution.

5. The defendant further understands and acknowledges that,
in addition to any sentence imposed under paragraphs 3 and 4 of

‘this agreement, a special assessment in the amount of $100 per

 

 
 

count will be imposed on the defendant. The defendant agrees that
; ,

any special assessment imposed. shall be paid at the time of

sentencing. If the defendant is financially unable to pay. the

special assessment, the defendant agrees to present evidence to

the Government and the Court at the time-of sentencing as to the

reasons for the defendant’s failure to pay.

6. The Government ‘résetves the right to inform the Court and
the probation office of all facts pertinent to the sentencing
process, including all relevant information concerning the
offenses committed, whether charged or not, as well as concerning
the defendant and the defendant’s background. Subject only to the
express terms of any agreed-upon sentencing recommendations
contained in this agreement, the Government further reserves the
right to make any recommendation as to the quality and quantity of
punishment.

7. The Government agrees to recommend at sentencing that the
Court reduce by two levels the -sentencing guideline level
applicable to the defendant’s offense, pursuant to Section
3E1.1(a) of the Sentencing Guidelines, based upon the defendant's
recognition and affirmative and timely acceptance of personal
responsibility. If at the time of sentencing the defendant’s
offense level is determined to be 16 or greater, the Government

will make a motion requesting, an additional one-level decrease

 

 

 
 

pursuant to Section 3E1.1(b) of the Sentencing Guidelines, stating
that the defendant has assisted authorities in the investigation
or prosecution of his own misconduct by timely notifying
authorities of his intention to enter a plea of guilty, thereby
permitting the Government to avoid preparing for trial and
permitting the Government and the Court to allocate their resources
efficiently. The Government, however, will not be required to
make this motion and this recommendation if the defendant: (a)
fails or refuses -to make a full, accurate, and complete disclosure
to the probation office of the circumstances surrounding the
relevant offense conduct; (b) is found to have misrepresented facts
to the Government prior to entering into this plea agreement; or
(c) commits any misconduct after entering into this plea agreement,
including but not limited to committing a state or federal offense,
violating any term of release, or making false statements or
misrepresentations to any governmental entity or official.

8. The Government and the deféndant agree that, although
not binding on the probation office or the Court, they will jointly
recommend that the Court make the following findings and
conclusions as to the sentence to be imposed, with both parties
reserving the right to argue regarding the application or non-

application of other guideline provisions not addressed below:
   

 

a. Base offense level: Pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 2S51.1(a) (1),
that the base offense level for purposes of sentencing guideline
calculations for the charged offenses is 12 (see §2C1.1), plus the
number of offense levels from the table in §2Bl1.1 corresponding to
the value of the unlawful payments /laundered funds (more than $3.5
million and less than $9.5 million), adding 18 levels;

b. Offense of conviction: That a two-level enhancement of the

 

}

guideline offense level applies under U.S.S.G. § 2.S1.1(b) (2) (B)

_ for a conviction under Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956;

 

Cc. Sophisticated means: That a two-level increase to the
offense level applies since the offense involved sophisticated
means pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 2S1.1(b) (3); and

d. the defendant has a Criminal History Category of I.

9. In the event that the defendant chooses to’ seek a variance
from the sentencing guideline range, the defendant further agrees
that any such application shall be filed in writing with the Court
and served on the United States no later than the deadline for
submitting objections to the Pre-Sentence Investigation Report
stated in Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 32(f) (1). 7

10. The defendant agrees, in an individual and any other
capacity, to forfeit to the United States, voluntarily and
immediately, all rights, title, and interest to any property, real

or personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds of the

 
\

 

violation of Title 18, United’ States Code, Section 371 and any
property, real or personal, involved in the violation of Title 18,
united States Code, Section 1956(h) or any property traceabie to
such property. In addition, the defendant agrees to forfeiture
of substitute property pursuant to Title 21, United States Code,

Section 853(p). The property subject to forfeiture includes, but

-is not limited to forfeiture money judgments:. (a) equal in value

to the total amount of proceeds he obtained as a result of the
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371; and (b) in
the sum of $4,400,000 in United States currency, which sum
represents the value of the property subject to forfeiture for the
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956 (h).

11. The defendant further agrees that forfeiture is
independent of any assessment, fine, cost, restitution, or penalty
that may be imposed by the Court. The defendant knowingly and
voluntarily agrees to waive all constitutional, legal, and

equitable defenses to the forfeiture, including excessive fines

under the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. In

addition; the defendant agrees to waive: any applicable time

limits for administrative or judicial forfeiture proceedings, the

requirements of Fed. R. Crim. P. 32.2 and 43(a), and any appeal of
the forfeiture.

12. The defendant also agrees to fully and truthfully

 
 

disclose the existence, nature and location of all assets in which
the defendant has or had any direct or indirect financial interest
or control, and any assets involved in the offense of conviction.
the defendant also agrees to take all steps requested by the United
States for the recovery and forfeiture of all assets identified by

the United States as subject to forfeiture. This includes, but

is not limited to,’ the delivery upon request of all necessary and .

appropriate documentation to deliver good and marketable title,
consenting to all orders of forfeiture, and not contesting or
impeding in- any way any criminal, civil or administrative
forfeiture proceedings concerning the forfeiture.

13. In furtherance of the collection of a forfeiture money
judgment and/or a restitution judgment, the defendant agrees to
the following: :

(a) The defendant agrees to make full and accurate
disclosure of his financial affairs to this Office. Specifically,
within 14 calendar days from a request by this Office, the
defendant shall submit a completed Financial Disclosure Statement
(form provided by this Office), and shall fully disclose and
identify all assets in which the defendant has any interest and/or
over which the defendant exercises control, directly or

indirectly, including those held by a spouse, nominee, or other

third party. Upon request by this Office, the defendant agrees

.

 

 

 

 

 

 
to provide in a timely manner all financial information requested,

including all financial information provided to the United States

Probation Office, and to meet in person to identify assets which

may be used to satisfy a forfeiture money judgment and/or the
restitution judgment.
(bob) The defendant agrees to not sell, hide, waste,

encumber, destroy, or otherwise devalue any asset until the

forfeiture money judgment and the restitution judgment are paid in

full without prior approval of the United States. The defendant

shall also identify any transfer of assets valued in excess of

$5,000 since the commencement of the offense conduct to date, |

including the identity of the asset, the value of the asset, the
identity of the third party to whom the asset was transferred, and
the current location of the asset.

(c) The defendant agrees ‘to cooperate fully in the

_investigation and the identification of assets to be applied toward

forfeiture and/or. restitution. The defendant- agrees that

providing false or incomplete information about assets, or hiding,

selling, transferring or devaluing assets and/or failing to

cooperate fully in the investigation and identification of assets
may be used as a basis for: (i) separate prosecution, including,

under Title 18, United States Code, Section. 1001; or (ii)

recommendation of a denial of a reduction for acceptance of

 

 

 

 
responsibility pursuant to the United States Sentencing Guidelines
§ 3E1.1.

(d) The defendant further agrees to liquidate assets,
or complete any other tasks which may result in immediate payment
of the forfeiture money judgment and/or the restitution judgment
in’ full, or full payment in the shortest amount of time, as
requested by the United States.

(e) The defendant shall notify, within 30 days, the
Clerk of the Court for the Southern District of Florida and this
Office of: (i): any change of name, residence, or mailing address,
and (ii) any material change in economic circumstances that affects
the ability to pay the forfeiture. |

14. The defendant is aware that Title 18, United States
Code, Section 3742 and Title 28, United States Code, Section 1291
afford the defendant the right to appeal the sentence imposed in

this case. Acknowledging this, in exchange for the undertakings

made by the United States in this plea agreement, the defendant

hereby waives all rights conferred by Sections 3742 and 1291 to
appeal any sentence imposed, including any restitution order, or
to appeal the manner in which the sentence was imposed, unless the
sentence exceeds the maximum permitted by statute or is the result
of an upward departure and/or an upward variance from the advisory

guideline range that the Court establishes at sentencing. The

10

 

\aA

 

 

 
defendant further understands that nothing in this agreement shall
affect the Government’s right and/or duty to appeal as set forth
in Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742(b) and Title 28,
United States Code, Section 1291. However, if the United States
appeals the defendant’s sentence pursuant to Sections 3742(b) and
1291, the defendant shall be released from the above waiver of
appellate rights. In addition to the foregoing provisions, the
defendant hereby waives all rights to argue on appeal that the
statute to which the defendant is pleading guilty is
unconstitutional and that the admitted conduct does not fall within
the scope of the statute. By signing this agreement, the defendant
acknowledges that the defendant has discussed the appeal waiver
set forth in this agreement with the defendant’s attorney.

15. The defendant.is aware that the sentence has not yet
been determined by the Court. The defendant also is aware that
any estimate of the probable sentencing range or sentence that the
defendant may receive, whether that estimate comes from the
defendant’s attorney, the Government, ox the probation office, is
a prediction, not a promise, and is not binding on the Government,

the probation office, or the Court. The defendant understands

further that any recommendation that the Government makes to the’

Court as to sentencing, whether pursuant to this agreement or

otherwise, is not binding on the Court, and the Court may disregard

‘11

 

 
the recommendation in its entirety. The defendant understands and
acknowledges, as previously acknowledged. in paragraph 2 above,
that the defendant may not withdraw his plea based upon the Court’s
decision not to accept a sentencing recommendation made by the
defendant, the Government, or a recommendation made jointly by
both the defendant and the Government.

16. The defendant agrees that, effective as of the date the
defendant signs this Plea Agreement and the Factual Proffer, and
notwithstanding any other subsequent event, including but not
limited to the defendant’s failure to plead guilty, the Court’s
refusal to accept the defendant’s guilty plea, or the defendant’s
withdrawal (or attempted withdrawal). of his guilty plea, the
Factual Proffer entered in connection with this Plea Agreement
shall be admissible against the defendant in any criminal case
involving the Fraud Section and the defendant, as: (a) substantive
evidence offered by the government in its case-in-chief and
rebuttal case; (b) impeachment evidence offered -by the government
on cross-examination; and (c) evidence at any sentencing hearing
or other hearing. In addition, the defendant also agrees not to
assert any claim under the Federal Rules of Evidence (including
Rule 410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence), the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure (including Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of

Criminal Procedure), or the United States Sentencing Guidelines

a 12

=

 

feet
(including U.S.S.G. § 1B1.1(a)) that the Factual Proffer entered
in connection with this Plea Agreement should be suppressed or is
otherwise inadmissible as evidence (in any form).

17. The defendant recognizes that pleading guilty may have
consequences with respect to the defendant’s immigration status if
the defendant is not a citizen of the United States. Under federal
law, a broad range of crimes are removable offenses, including the
offense to which the defendant is. pleading guilty. Indeed,
because the defendant is pleading guilty to a conspiracy to launder
money, removal is presumptively mandatory. Removal and other
“immigration consequences are the subjéct’ of a separate proceeding,
however, and defendant understands that no one, including the
defendant’s attorney or the Court, can predict to a certainty the
effect of the defendant’s conviction on the defendant’s
immigration status. Defendant nevertheless affirms that the
defendant wants to plead guilty regardless of any immigration
_ consequences that the defendant’ s plea may entail, even if the
consequence is the defendant’ s automatic removal from the United

States.

13

 

 
18.° This is the entire agreement and understanding between
the United States and the defendant. There are no other

agreements, promises, representations, or understandings.

Date: //2V 20% — ROBERT ZINK

CHIEF, FRAUD SECTION
Department of Justice, Criminal
Division

 

ASSISTANT CHIEF
JONATHAN ROBELL
TRIAL ATTORNEY

v

Date: (/A3/P020 DEBORAH L. CONNOR >
CHIEF, MONEY LAUNDERING & ASSET
RECOVERY SECTION
‘Department of tact Criminal

Division

“MARY tg AE MCCARTHY
TRIAL ATTORNEY

 

 

| : 1 =
nd: “<< ) g - \ /
ss A . DAV , ESQ.
COUN DEFENDANT CEVALLOS

Date:

 

 

|2-co-1

 

ARMENG LFONSO CEVALLOS DIAZ
DEFENDANT

14
