Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Litigation Release No. 17651 / August 1, 2002

Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 1607 / August 1, 2002

Securities and Exchange Commission v. Douglas A. Murphy, David G.
Kay and Lawrence H. Theriot, Civil Action No. H-02-2908 (S.D. Texas)

SEC SUES FORMER OFFICERS OF AMERICAN RICE, INC. FOR AUTHORIZING
FOREIGN BRIBES

On July 30, 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil
injunctive action against two former officers of American Rice, Inc., Douglas A.
Murphy and David G. Kay, alleging that they authorized over $500,000 in
bribery payments to Haitian customs officials during 1998 and 1999, in
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. American Rice is a Houston,
Texas based rice company. The complaint, filed in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Texas, alleges that Kay, with Murphy's
knowledge, authorized the bribes to illegally reduce American Rice's import
taxes by approximately $1.5 million.

According to the complaint, in advance of certain rice shipments to Haiti
between January 1998 and October 1999, Kay directed an American Rice
employee to prepare false shipping records that underreported the tonnage of
rice on the relevant vessels. Haitian customs officials used the false records to
clear the American Rice vessels through customs. After the vessels cleared
customs, Kay allegedly directed American Rice employees in Haiti pay cash
bribes to certain customs officials. To hide the payments, Kay then directed
American Rice's controller in Haiti to improperly record the bribery payments
as routine business expenditures. American Rice employees made at least 12
bribery payments totaling approximately $500,000. In exchange, American
Rice illegally avoided approximately $1.5 million in Haitian import taxes. The
complaint further alleges that Murphy was aware of the bribery scheme, but
took no action to stop the payments. A third individual, Lawrence H. Theriot, a
former American Rice consultant, allegedly assisted Kay and Murphy by
monitoring the bribery scheme and exploring alternative arrangements.

The complaint alleges that Kay violated Sections 30A and 13(b)(5) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, and aided
and abetted American Rice's violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the
Exchange Act, that Murphy violated Section 30A of the Exchange Act and is
liable, as a controlling person, for Kay's violations of Sections 30A and 13(b)
(5) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1, and that Theriot aided
and abetted Kay and Murphy's violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act.

In parallel criminal proceedings, the Department of Justice previously
obtained indictments against Murphy and Kay. On April 16, 2002, the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Texas dismissed the
indictments on the grounds that the payments at issue were not made to
obtain or retain business in Haiti, as required by the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. A notice of appeal has been filed by the Department of Justice. The
Commission wishes to thank the United States Department of Justice for its
assistance in this matter.

» SEC Complaint in this matter.

http:/www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/Irl1 7651.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 08/02/2002
