#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, January 10, 2017

Two Businessmen Plead Guilty to Foreign Bribery Charges in Connection with Venezuela Bribery
Schemes

A former general manager and partial owner of a Florida-based energy company and an owner of multiple Texas-based energy companies each
pleaded guilty today to foreign bribery charges for their roles in a scheme to corruptly secure contracts from Venezuela’s state-owned and
state-controlled energy company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA).

Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern
District of Texas, Special Agent in Charge Mark Dawson of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-
HSI) in Houston and Special Agent in Charge Richard Goss of Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-Cl) Houston Field Office
made the announcement.

Juan Jose Hernandez Comerma (Hernandez), 51, of Weston, Florida, pleaded guilty in federal court in Houston to one count of conspiracy to
violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and one count of violating the FCPA. Charles Quintard Beech Ill, 46, of Katy, Texas, pleaded
guilty to one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA. U.S. District Judge Gray H. Miller of the Southern District of Texas accepted the guilty
pleas. Sentencing for both defendants is scheduled for July 14, 2017.

According to admissions made in connection with Hernandez’s plea, Hernandez conspired with U.S.-based businessmen Abraham Jose Shiera
Bastidas (Shiera) and Roberto Enrique Rincon Fernandez (Rincon) to pay bribes and other things of value to PDVSA purchasing analysts. This
ensured that Shiera’s and Rincon’s companies were placed on PDVSA bidding panels, which enabled the companies to win lucrative energy
contracts with PDVSA. From 2008 until 2012, Hernandez admitted that, while general manager and later partial owner of one of Shiera’s
companies, he provided recreational travel and entertainment and offered bribes to PDVSA officials, including Alfonzo Eliezer Gravina Munoz
(Gravina), based on a percentage of contracts the officials helped to award to Shiera’s companies. Rincon, Shiera and Gravina have all also
pleaded guilty in the case.

According to admissions made in connection with Beech’s plea, from 2011 to 2012, Beech paid bribes to multiple PDVSA officials, including
Gravina, in exchange for their assistance in placing Beech’s companies on PDVSA bidding panels and assisting Beech’s company or companies
in receiving payment for previously awarded PDVSA contracts. Beech also admitted that he agreed with others, including PDVSA officials, to
engage in financial transactions to conceal the nature, source and ownership of the bribe proceeds.

In addition to Hernandez and Beech, the Justice Department has announced the guilty pleas of six other individuals as part of a larger, ongoing
investigation by the U.S. government into bribery at PDVSA.

ICE-HSI is conducting the ongoing investigation with assistance from the FBI and IRS-Cl. Trial Attorneys Aisling O’Shea and Jeremy R. Sanders of
the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys (AUSA) John Pearson and Robert S. Johnson of the Southern District of Texas
are prosecuting the case. AUSAs Kristine Rollinson and Vincent Carroll of the Southern District of Texas are handling the forfeiture aspects of
the case.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs and the Swiss Federal Office of Justice also provided assistance.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal-fr foreign-corrupt-practices-act.

 

 

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption
Component(s):
Criminal Division

riminal - Criminal Fr tion
USAO - Texas, Southern

Press Release Number:
17-025

Updated October 3, 2017
