UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

 

6:05 pm, Sep 30, 2019

RECEIVED CFTC

)
In the Matter of: )
)
LIORA WELLES, )

) CFTC Docket No. 19-32

Respondent. ) Proceedings Clerk

)
)

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I. INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”) has reason to
believe that between at least September 2014 to August 2016 (“Relevant Period”) Liora Welles
(“Welles” or “Respondent”), violated Sections 4c(b) and 6(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange
Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b) and 9(1) (2012), and Commission Regulations (“Regulations’’)
32.4 and 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R. §§ 32.4 and 180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2019). Therefore, the
Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the
violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order should be issued imposing
remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, except to the extent that
Welles admits those findings in any related action against Welles by, or any agreement with, the
United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) or any other governmental agency or office,
Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c)
and (d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order’’) and acknowledges service of this Order.’

 

' Respondent consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this
proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a
party or claimant, and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect
therein, without further proof. Respondent does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the
findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or
to which the Commission ts a party or claimant, other than: a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or
II. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

During the Relevant Period, Welles worked as a “retention agent” at Yukom
Communications Ltd. (“Yukom”) and offered trading in illegal, off-exchange binary options to
retail customers, including customers in the United States, through the “BigOption” and
“BinaryBook” brands (the “Yukom Brands”). When communicating with customers, Welles
misrepresented the fundamental nature of the binary options trading offered to customers and
falsely stated that most customers made money, when in fact the substantial majority lost money.
Welles also misrepresented her financial expertise, physical location, and identity. Welles
intentionally or recklessly disregarded that the solicitations she used to induce customers to
deposit funds to trade binary options with the Yukom Brands included false and misleading
statements. She therefore committed fraud in violation of the Act and Regulations.

* * * * *

In accepting the Offer, the Commission recognizes Welles’s entry into a formal
cooperation agreement between Welles and the Division of Enforcement (“Division”) entered
into on September 16, 2019 (“Cooperation Agreement”), which sets forth the terms of her
agreement to cooperate with the Commission, including the Division, in connection with the case
captioned CFTC v. Yukom Communications, No. 1:19-cv-05416 (N.D. IIL, filed Aug. 12, 2019)
(the “Yukom Litigation”) and any investigation, litigation, or administrative proceeding relating
to the subject matter of this Order.

B. RESPONDENT

Liora Welles is a resident of California who resided in Israel from at least 2014 to 2016.
Welles has never registered with the Commission in any capacity.

C. FACTS

During the Relevant Period, Welles was employed as a retention agent, or broker, with
Yukom. Lee Elbaz (“Elbaz”) interviewed and hired Welles.

Typically, a Yukom “conversion agent” was responsible for soliciting prospective
customers and obtaining an initial deposit, frequently around $250, and a retention agent was
responsible for working with that customer thereafter. Initially, Welles worked as a retention
agent and solicited customers to deposit funds to trade binary options” with the BigOption brand

 

a proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer or
this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any other proceeding.

* A binary option is a type of option contract in which the payout depends entirely on the outcome of a
discrete event—typically a “yes/no” proposition. A binary options customer enters into a trade that

2
and reported directly to Elbaz. Later, Welles solicited customers to deposit funds with the
BinaryBook brand.

At the direction of her supervisors and managers, including Elbaz, Welles falsely
represented to customers that her job was to make them money. Among other false statements,
Welles misrepresented the alignment of financial incentives between customers and Yukom,
claiming to represent the interests of investors when in fact she knew that Yukom profited
through customer losses, and misrepresented customers’ ability to withdraw funds. For example,
in a recorded call in October 2015, Welles told a customer that they had the same interests and
her goal was to make the customer money as she earned commissions on every winning traded.
In fact, Welles and other retention agents earned commissions on net deposits — i.e., customer
deposits minus withdrawals and charge backs. Respondent also misrepresented the likelihood of
profits, telling at least one customer, in an email dated October 13, 2014 that she would
“personally trade for you with a guaranteed profit of 30-40%.”

Welles was instructed by Elbaz, as well as her managers and supervisors at Yukom, to
prevent customers from withdrawing funds from their trading accounts. One of the tools Welles
used to prevent withdrawals was a so-called “bonus.” As utilized by Yukom, a bonus was an
amount of purported funds that retention agents could give to a customer to be used in trading.
Bonuses did not involve the actual transfer of funds to a customer or a customer’s trading
account. Further, the bonuses offered by Yukom required a customer to “turnover” their account
by trading a multiplier, typically 30 times, of the bonus amount. Welles did not always tell
customers about the turnover requirement before placing bonuses in their account. Further, in at
least one instance Welles placed a “bonus” in a customer’s account without authorization from
that customer.

The Respondent, along with Elbaz, provided training to Yukom retention agents. During
that training, Welles explained how to “pitch” clients and how to handle resistances and
objections from customers. She also drafted an “Objection Pitch” training script that was used in
training. That script included numerous false representations, including that that “I only make
money when you are profitable. Explain to them that you make 5% commission every time the
withdraw profits.”

When communicating with customers, Yukom employees typically use an alias or “stage
name.” Welles used three aliases when communicating with customers: “Lindsay Cole,”
“Lindsay Taylor,” and “Lindsay Welles.” Each of these aliases was approved by Elbaz.
Respondent also identified herself, at various times during the Relevant Period, as a “Senior
Broker,” an “Account Manager,” “Hedge Fund Manager” and “Expert Trader’ for BigOption
and/or BinaryBook, despite having no background in finance, business, or financial
management. Welles also falsely represented her geographical location and professional
qualifications.

During the Relevant Period, the Respondent was responsible for approximately
$2,395,310 in customer losses. Respondent has been ordered to pay criminal restitution

 

predicts whether the price of an underlying asset—such as a currency pairing or commodity future—will
rise above or fall below a specified amount at a specified date and time.

3
of$2,395,310, joint and severally with Elbaz, in her criminal case, United States v. Welles, 8:18-
cr-00613-TDC (filed D. Md. Dec. 13, 2018).

I. LEGAL DISCUSSION
A. Option Fraud in Violation of Section 4c(b) of the Act and Regulation 32.4

Section 4c(b) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) (2012), makes it unlawful for any person “to
offer to enter into, enter into or confirm the execution of, any transaction involving any
commodity regulated under [the] Act which is of the character of, or is commonly known to the
trade as,” inter alia, an “option,” “bid,” “offer,” “put,” or “call,” in contravention of Commission
rules or regulations “prohibiting any such transaction or allowing any such transaction under
such terms and conditions as the Commission shall prescribe.” Binary options qualify as
commodity option transactions within the meaning of the Act and Regulations. See CFTC v.
Vision Fin. Partners, LLC, Case No. 16-60297-CIV-Cohn/Seltzer, 2016 WL 3163071, at *3
(S.D. Fla. June 3, 2016) (denying motion to dismiss; holding that binary options are commodity
options within the meaning of Section 4c(b) of the Act).

Regulation 32.4, 17 C.F.R. § 32.4 (2019), provides that, in connection with an offer to
enter into, the entry into, or the confirmation of the execution of, any commodity option
transaction, it shall be unlawful “for any person directly or indirectly: (a) To cheat or defraud or
attempt to cheat or defraud any other person; (b) To make or cause to be made to any other
person any false report or statement thereof or cause to be entered for any person any false
record thereof; or (c) To deceive or attempt to deceive any other person by any means
whatsoever.” Fraud involving commodity options is established when a person or entity:

(A) makes a misrepresentation, misleading statement, or a deceptive omission; (B) acts with
scienter; and (C) the misrepresentation or omission is material. CFTC v. R.J. Fitzgerald & Co.,
Inc., 310 F.3d 1321, 1328 (11th Cir. 2002) (finding commercial that overemphasized profit
potential, downplayed risk of loss, and urged viewers to take immediate action or risk missing
the opportunity materially misleading, despite inclusion of boilerplate risk disclosures); CFTC v.
Rosenberg, 85 F. Supp. 2d 424, 446-47 (D.N.J. 2000) (holding that “the CFTC must demonstrate
that the defendant made a material misrepresentation of presently existing or past fact with
scienter” to establish a claim for futures and options fraud under Sections 4b(a) and 4c(b) of the
Act.”); CFTC v. Nat’l Invest. Consultants, Inc., No. C 05-02641, 2005 WL 2072105, at *8 (N.D.
Cal. Aug. 26, 2005) (holding that the Commission can establish scienter under Section 4b(a) of
the Act by showing that a defendant “knew the representations were false and were calculated to
cause harm or by showing that the representations were made with a reckless disregard for their
truth or falsity.” (citing CFTC v. Noble Wealth Data Information Services, Inc., 90 F. Supp. 2d
676, 686 (D. Md. 2000))).

As described above, while acting as retention agent at Yukom, Welles intentionally or
recklessly made material misrepresentations, misleading statements, and deceptive omissions.
By engaging in this conduct, Welles violated Section 4c(b) of the Act and Regulation 32.4.
B. Fraud in Connection with Swaps Transactions in Violation of Section 6(c)(1) and
Regulation 180.1(a)

Section 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2012), provides in relevant part that “[i]t shall
be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to use or employ or attempt to use or employ,
in connection with any swap... any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance, in
contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission shall promulgate... .” Pursuant
to this provision, the Commission promulgated Regulation 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R.

§ 180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2019), which makes it unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, in
connection with any swap, “to intentionally or recklessly: (1) Use or employ, or attempt to use
or employ, any manipulative device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; (2) Make, or attempt to
make, any untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact
necessary in order to make the statements made not untrue or misleading; [or] (3) Engage, or
attempt to engage, in any act, practice, or course of business, which operates or would operate as
a fraud or deceit upon any person.”

Section 1a(47)(A) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(47)(A) (2012), defines a “swap” as including,
inter alia, “any agreement, contract, or transaction” that: (i) is an option of any kind; (ii) provides
for payment dependent on the occurrence, nonoccurrence, or extent of occurrence of an event or
contingency; or (iii) provides on an executory basis for payments based on the value of one or
more interest or other rates, currencies, commodities, securities, or other financial or economic
interests or property, and that transfers in whole or part the financial risk associated with a future
change in such value between the parties to the transaction without also conveying an ownership
interest in the asset or liability. Binary options qualify as swaps based on the plain language of
Section 1a(47)(A). See CFTC v. Vault Options, Ltd., No. 1:16-CV-01881, 2016 WL 5339716, at
*6 (N.D. Ill. July 20, 2016) (default judgment) (holding that binary options are swaps).

By intentionally or recklessly engaging in the same conduct that violated Sections 4c(b)
of the Act and Regulation 32.4, Welles violated Section 6(c)(1) of the Act and Regulation
180.1(a)(1)-(3). See CFTC v. Hunter Wise Commedities, LLC, 21 F. Supp. 3d 1317, 1347 (S.D.
Fla. 2014) (finding that material misrepresentations and omissions in connection with the sale of
commodities violated Section 6(c)(1) of the Act and Regulation 180.1).

IV. FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,
Respondent violated Sections 4c(b) and 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b) and 9(1) (2012),
and Regulations 32.4 and 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R. §§ 32.4, 180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2019) by making
fraudulent misrepresentations to customers and prospective customers in connection with the
trading of binary options.

Vv. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which she, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein, except to the extent that Welles admits those findings in any
related action against Welles by, or any agreement with, the DOJ or any other governmental
agency or office:

A.

B.

Acknowledges service of this Order;

Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

Waives:

1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;

4, Judicial review by any court;

5. Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that she may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,
5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012), and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2019), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that she may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II §§ 201-53,
110 Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
and

8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the

entry in this proceeding of any order imposing any other relief, including this
Order;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1,

Makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Sections 4c(b), and
6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b), and 9(1) (2012), and Regulations 32.4 and
180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R. §§ 32.4, 180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2019) by making fraudulent
misrepresentations to customers and prospective customers in connection with the
trading of binary options.
2. Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Sections 4c(b), and 6(c)(1)
of the Act and Regulations 32.4 and 180.1(a)(1)-(3).

3. Orders that Respondent be permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly,
engaging in trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term
is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012)) for or on behalf
of any other person or entity, and all registered entities shall refuse him trading
privileges for such purposes; and

4, Orders Respondent to comply with the conditions and undertakings consented to in
the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Sections 4c(b), and 6(c)(1) of the Act,
7 U.S.C. §§ 6c(b), and 9(1) (2012), and Regulations 32.4 and 180.1(a)(1)-(3), 17 C.F.R.
§§ 32.4, 180.1(a)(1)-(3) (2019).

Respondent is permanently prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in trading on
or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2012)) for or on behalf of any other person or entity, and all
registered entities shall refuse him trading privileges for such purposes.

Respondent shall comply with the following conditions and undertakings set forth in the
Offer:

1, Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither she nor any of her successors
and assigns, agents, or employees under her authority or control shall take any
action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings
or conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that
this Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this
provision shall affect Respondent’s: (i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to
take legal positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondent shall comply with this agreement, and shall undertake all steps
necessary to ensure that all agents and/or employees under her authority or control
understand and comply with this agreement.

2. Respondent agrees that she shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (2019));

b. having any commodity interests traded on Respondent’s behalf;
c. controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or
entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

d. soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose
of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

e. applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2019); and/or

f. acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R.
§ 3.1(a) (2019)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that
term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38) (2012)),
registered, required to be registered, or exempted from registration with the
Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9).

Cooperation: Welles shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the
Commission, including the Division, in accordance with the terms set forth in the
Cooperation Agreement in any investigation, civil litigation, or administrative
proceeding related to the subject matter of this action or any current or future
Division investigation or Commission action related thereto, including without
limitation the Yukom Litigation. As part of such cooperation, Welles agrees to:

a. preserve and produce to the Commission in a responsive and prompt
manner, as requested by Division Staff, all relevant non-privileged
documents, information, and other materials wherever located, in the
appropriate possession, custody, or control of Welles;

b. utilize her knowledge and skill to explain sales and marketing services,
including “retention” services, for entities doing business under the brand
names BinaryBook and BigOption, to interpret information, or identify
new and productive lines of inquiry;

C. prepare and appear for interviews and testimony at such times and places
as requested by Division staff;

d. respond completely and truthfully to all inquiries and interviews, when
requested to do so by Division staff;

e. identify and authenticate relevant documents and other evidentiary
materials, execute affidavits and/or declarations, and testify completely
and truthfully at depositions, hearings, trial, and other judicial proceedings
in connection with the Yukom Litigation;

f. enter into tolling agreements, when requested to do so by Division staff,
during the period of cooperation;

8
g. accept service by mail, electronic mail, or facsimile transmission of
notices or subpoenas for documents and/or testimony;

h. appoint her attorney as agent to receive service of such notices and
subpoenas;
i. waive the territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45 of the Federal

Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local rules in connection with
requests or subpoenas of Division staff; and

i serve by hand delivery or by next-day mail all written notices and
correspondence required by or related to the Cooperation Agreement to
the Director of the Division of Enforcement, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, 1155 21st Street, NW, Three Lafayette Centre, Washington,
DC 20581, unless otherwise directed in writing by Division Staff.

4, Change of Address/Phone: Until the conclusion of the Yukom Litigation,
Respondent shall provide written notice to the Commission of any change to her
telephone numbers and mailing addresses within ten calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Ub. | PLL

Christopher J. Kitkpatrick “
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: September 30, 2019
