U.S. Department of Justice

Criminal Division

September 26, 2018

F, Joseph Warin

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
1050 Connecticut Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20036-5306

Re:  Petrdéleo Brasileiro S.A. ~ Petrobras
Dear Counsel:

The United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and the
United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia (the “Fraud Section and the
Office”), and Petrdéleo Brasileiro S.A. — Petrobras (“‘Petrobras” or the “Company”) pursuant to
authority granted by the Company’s Board of Directors, enter into this Non-Prosecution
Agreement (“Agreement”). On the understandings specified below, the Fraud Section and the
Office will not bring any criminal or civil case against the Company (except for criminal tax
violations, as to which the Fraud Section and the Office do not make any agreement) relating to
any of the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached hereto as Attachment A
(“Statement of Facts”). To the extent there is conduct disclosed by the Company that does not
relate to any of the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts, such conduct will not
be exempt from prosecution and is not within the scope of or relevant to this Agreement. The
Company, pursuant to authority granted by the Company’s Board of Directors, also agrees to
certain terms and obligations of the Agreement as described below.

The Fraud Section and the Office enter into this Agreement based on the individual facts
and circumstances presented by this case and the Company, including:

(a) The Company did not receive voluntary disclosure credit because it did not
voluntarily and timely disclose to the Fraud Section and the Office the conduct described in the
Statement of Facts. However, after learning of the allegations of misconduct by Petrobras officials,
the Company retained external law firms to conduct an independent investigation, and notified the
Fraud Section and the Office of its investigation and intent to fully cooperate;

(b) the Company received full credit for its cooperation with the Fraud Section and the
Office’ investigation, including conducting a thorough internal investigation, proactively sharing
in real-time facts discovered during the internal investigation and sharing information that would
not have been otherwise available to the Fraud Section and the Office, making regular factual
presentations to the Fraud Section and the Office, facilitating interviews of and information from
foreign witnesses, and voluntarily collecting, analyzing, and organizing voluminous evidence and

: Ap!
information for the Fraud Section and the Office in response to requests, including translating key
documents;

(c) by the conclusion of the investigation, the Company provided to the Fraud Section
and the Office all relevant facts known to it, including information about the individuals involved
in the conduct described in the Statement of Facts and conduct disclosed to the Fraud Section prior
to the Agreement;

(d) the Company no longer employs or is affiliated with any of the individuals known
to the Company to be implicated in the conduct at issue in the case as of the date of this Agreement,
and the Company engaged in extensive remedial measures, including: replacing the Board of
Directors and the Executive Board (the Company’s high-level managers) and implementing
governance reforms, such as expanding the scope of decisions requiring Board of Director
approval; elevating and revamping the Company’s compliance function, including creating and
staffing the Division of Governance and Compliance (“DGC”), and mandating that the Officer of
DGC cannot be terminated without the affirmative vote of a Board member representing minority
shareholders; limiting individual decision-making authority by implementing a “four eyes”
approval policy that requires a second review by supervisors from different reporting lines for
substantive decisions; creating new corporate investment policies and procedures, including a new
Approval Authority Matrix, mandatory collective decision-making, and participation of the
Division of DGC in investment committees; enhancing the Company’s policies and procedures
related to confidential reporting and investigations, including restructuring the Office of the
Ombudsman, implementing a confidential reporting hotline, and enhancing the procedures related
to the Company’s Internal Commissions of Inquiry; updating policies and procedures related to
compliance; implementing measures to ensure the Company's operations are insulated from
improper political interference, including new hiring and promotion procedures, a comprehensive
government relations policy, and uniquely protecting the Officer of DGC within the organization;
enhancing anti-corruption training by requiring all employees to complete compliance training,
providing specialized training to employees engaged in the procurement of goods and services,
and providing anti-corruption training to the Board of Directors and Executive Board; creating an
Ethics Committee responsible for guiding, disseminating, and promoting compliance with ethical
principles and conduct obligations; creating a committee within the Company’s compliance
function to discipline employees and ensure that discipline is meted out consistently; disciplining
employees known to have violated Company policies and procedures, including suspending
employees, removing their managerial functions, and terminating their employment; and
enhancing controls related to procurement and contracting, including centralizing the procurement
function, segregating procurement duties, and implementing a risk-based integrity due diligence
program for prospective contractors;

(e) the Company has committed to continue to enhance its compliance program and
internal controls, including ensuring that its compliance program satisfies the minimum elements
set forth in Attachment B to this Agreement (Corporate Compliance Program);

(f) the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct;

(g) the Company has no prior criminal history; <
(h) — the Company has agreed to continue to cooperate with the Fraud Section and the
Office in any ongoing investigation of the conduct of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates
and its officers, directors, employees, agents, business partners, distributors, and consultants
relating to violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”);

(i) the Company resolved with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
through a cease-and-desist proceeding that will be filed on September 27, 2018, relating to the
conduct described in the Statement of Facts;

(j) the Company settled a private class action shareholders’ suit, In re Petrobras
Securities Litigation, No. 14-cv-9662 (S.D.N.Y.), relating to conduct described in the Statement
of Facts, pursuant to which it has agreed to pay the settlement class $2.95 billion;

(k) the mitigating factors present in this case, including that, in addition to the
misconduct described in the Statement of Facts, a number of executives of the Company engaged
in an embezzlement scheme that victimized the Company and its shareholders; and that the
Company is a Brazilian-owned company that will separately be entering into a resolution with
Brazilian authorities;

(I) accordingly, after considering (a) through (k) above, the Fraud Section and the
Office believe that the appropriate resolution of this case is a non-prosecution agreement with the
Company, and a criminal penalty with an aggregate discount of 25% off of the bottom of the U.S.
Sentencing Guidelines fine range; that the Fraud Section and the Office will credit 80% of the
criminal penalty against the amount the Company pays to Brazilian authorities, pursuant to their
resolution, and 10% of the criminal penalty against the civil penalty imposed by the SEC. Based
on the Company’s remediation and the state of its compliance program, the Company’s agreement
to report to the Fraud Section and the Office as set forth in Attachment C to this Agreement
(Corporate Compliance Reporting), and the fact that the Company is based in Brazil and will
separately be entering into a resolution with Brazil and will be subject to oversight by Brazilian
authorities, including Brazil’s Tribunal de Contas da Unifio and Comissio de Valores Mobiliarios,
the Fraud Section and the Office determined that an independent compliance monitor was
unnecessary.

The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under United States
law for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth in the attached
Statement of Facts, and that the facts described therein are true and accurate. The Company also
admits, accepts, and acknowledges that the facts described in the attached Statement of Facts
constitute a violation of law, specifically the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15,
United States Code, Section 78m. The Company expressly agrees that it shall not, through present
or future attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents or any other person authorized to speak
for the Company make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise, contradicting the
acceptance of responsibility for criminal violations of the FCPA by the Company set forth above
or the facts described in the attached Statement of Facts. The Company agrees that if it or any of
its direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates that the Company majority-owns or otherwise controls
issues a press release or holds any press conference in connection with this Agreement, the
Company shall first consult the Fraud Section and the Office to determine (a) whether the text of;

3
the release or proposed statements at the press conference are true and accurate with respect to
matters between the Fraud Section and the Office and the Company; and (b) whether the Fraud
Section and the Office have any objection to the release. This paragraph does not apply to any
statement or testimony by any officer, director, employee, or agent of the Company in the course
of any criminal, regulatory, or civil case against such individual, unless such individual is speaking
in a representative and authorized capacity on behalf of the Company.

The Company’s obligations under this Agreement shall have a term of 3 years from the
date on which the Agreement is executed (the “Term”). The Company agrees, however, that, in
the event the Fraud Section and the Office determines, in its sole discretion, that the Company has
knowingly violated any provision of this Agreement or has failed to completely perform or fulfill
each of the Company’s obligations under this Agreement, an extension or extensions of the Term
may be imposed by the Fraud Section and the Office, in its sole discretion, for up to a total
additional time period of one year, without prejudice to the Fraud Section and the Office’s right to
proceed as provided in the breach provisions of this Agreement below. Any extension of the
Agreement extends all terms of this Agreement, including the terms of the reporting requirement
in Attachment C, for an equivalent period. Conversely, in the event the Fraud Section and the
Office find, in their sole discretion, that there exists a change in circumstances sufficient to
eliminate the need for the reporting requirement in Attachment C, and that the other provisions of
this Agreement have been satisfied, the Agreement may be terminated early.

The Company shall cooperate fully with the Fraud Section and the Office subject to
applicable law and regulations, in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this
Agreement and the attached Statement of Facts and other conduct related to possible corrupt
payments, or related violations of the books and records or internal controls provisions of the
FCPA under investigation by the Fraud Section and the Office until the later of the date upon
which all investigations and prosecutions arising out of the conduct are concluded, or the Term.
At the request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall also cooperate fully with
other domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as the
Multilateral Development Banks (“MDBs”), in any investigation of the Company, its subsidiaries
or its affiliates, or any of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, and
consultants, or any other party, in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this
Agreement and Attachment A to this Agreement (Statement of Facts) and other conduct related to
corrupt payments, false books and records, failure to implement adequate internal accounting
controls, and circumvention of internal controls under investigation by the Fraud Section and the
Office except as otherwise prohibited by law. The Company agrees that its cooperation shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:

a. The Company shall truthfully disclose all factual information not protected by a
valid claim of attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine or similar protection under foreign
law with respect to its activities, those of its subsidiaries and affiliates, and those of its present and
former directors, officers, employees, agents, and consultants, including any evidence or
allegations and internal or external investigations, about which the Company has any knowledge
or about which the Fraud Section and the Office may inquire. This obligation of truthful disclosure
includes, but is not limited to, the obligation of the Company to provide to the Fraud Section a

 
the Office, upon request, any document, record, or other tangible evidence about which the Fraud
Section and the Office may inquire of the Company.

b, Upon request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall designate
knowledgeable employees, agents or attorneys to provide to the Fraud Section and the Office the
information and materials described above on behalf of the Company. It is further understood that
the Company must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate information.

C. The Company shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews or
testimony, as requested by the Fraud Section and the Office, present or former officers, directors,
employees, agents, and consultants of the Company. This obligation includes, but is not limited
to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, as well as interviews with
domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities. Cooperation shall include
identification of witnesses who, to the knowledge of the Company, may have material information
regarding the matters under investigation.

d, With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records or other tangible
evidence provided to the Fraud Section and the Office pursuant to this Agreement, the Company
consents to any and ail disclosures, subject to applicable law and regulations, to other
governmental authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign government,
as well as MDBs, of such materials as the Fraud Section and the Office, in their sole discretion,
shall deem appropriate.

In addition, during the Term, should the Company learn of evidence or allegations of actual
or potentially corrupt payments or actual or potential violations of the FCPA anti-bribery or
accounting provisions had the conduct occurred within the jurisdiction of the United States, the
Company shall promptly report such evidence or allegations to the Fraud Section and the Office.
On the date the Term expires, the Company, by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and
the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, will certify to the Fraud Section and the Office that
the Company has met its disclosure obligations pursuant to this Agreement. Such certification will
be deemed a material statement and representation by the Company to the executive branch of the
United States for purposes of 18 U.S.C. § 1001 and 18 U.S.C. § 1519.

The Company represents that it has implemented and will continue to implement a
compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws throughout its operations, including those of its affiliates, agents,
and joint ventures, and those of its contractors and subcontractors whose responsibilities include
interacting with foreign and domestic officials or other activities carrying a high risk of corruption,
including, but not limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment B (Corporate
Compliance Program), which is incorporated by reference into this Agreement, In addition, the
Company agrees that it will report to the Fraud Section and the Office once annually during each
year of the Term of the Agreement regarding remediation and implementation of the compliance
measures described in Attachment B. These reports will be prepared in accordance with
Attachment C (Corporate Compliance Reporting).

In order to address any deficiencies in its internal accounting controls, policies, and
procedures, the Company represents that it has undertaken, and will continue to undertake in ihe

5 As

  
future, in a manner consistent with all of its obligations under this Agreement, a review of its
existing internal accounting controls, policies, and procedures regarding compliance with the
FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. Where necessary and appropriate, the Company
agrees to adopt a new compliance program, or to modify its existing one, including internal
controls, compliance policies, and procedures in order to ensure that it maintains: (a) an effective
system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure the making and keeping of fair and
accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-corruption compliance program that
incorporates relevant internal accounting controls, as well as policies and procedures designed to
effectively detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. The
compliance program, including the internal accounting controls system will include, but not be
limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment B.

The Fraud Section, the Office, and the Company agree, based on the application of the
United States Sentencing Guidelines, that the appropriate total criminal penalty is $853,200,000
(“Total Criminal Penalty”). This reflects a 25 percent discount off of the bottom of the applicable
United States Sentencing Guidelines fine range for the Company’s full cooperation and
remediation. The Fraud Section, the Office, and the Company further agree that the Company will
pay the United States $85,320,000, equal to 10 percent of the Total Criminal Penalty. The
Company agrees to pay $85,320,000 to the United States Treasury no later than five business days
after the Agreement is fully executed. The Fraud Section and the Office agree to credit the
remaining amount of the Total Criminal Penalty against the amount the Company pays to Brazil,
up to 80 percent of the Total Criminal Penalty, equal to $682,560,000, and the amount the
Company pays to the SEC as a civil penalty, up to 10 percent of the Total Criminal Penalty, equal
to $85,320,000. The Company’s payment obligations to the United States will be complete upon
the Company’s payment of $85,320,000, equal to 10 percent of the Total Criminal Penalty, so long
as the Company pays the remaining amounts to Brazil and the SEC pursuant to their respective
agreements, In the event that the Company does not pay to Brazil any part of the $682,560,000 in
the timeframe specified in the agreement between Brazilian authorities and the Company, the
Company will be required to pay that amount to the United States Treasury, except that the Fraud
Section and the Office will credit up to 50% of that amount paid to the SEC.. The Company shall
not seek or accept directly or indirectly reimbursement or indemnification from any source with
regard to the penalty amounts that the Company pays pursuant to this Agreement or any other
agreement entered into with an enforcement authority or regulator concerning the facts set forth in
the Statement of Facts. This Agreement does not bar the Company from seeking recovery under
Brazilian law, in proceedings unrelated to the penalty imposed here, from those who have inflicted
harm on the Company. The Company further acknowledges that no tax deduction may be sought
in connection with the payment of any part of the Total Criminal Penalty.

The Fraud Section and the Office agree, except as provided herein, that it will not bring
any criminal or civil case (except for criminal tax violations, as to which the Fraud Section and the
Office does not make any agreement) against the Company relating to any of the conduct described
in the attached Statement of Facts, To the extent there is conduct disclosed by the Company that
does not relate to any of the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts, such conduct
will not be exempt from prosecution and is not within the scope of or relevant to this Agreement.
The Fraud Section and the Office, however, may use any information related to the conduct
described in the attached Statement of Facts against the Company: (a) in a prosecution for perj

2 se
or obstruction of justice; (b) in a prosecution for making a false statement; (c) in a prosecution or
other proceeding relating to any crime of violence; or (d) in a prosecution or other proceeding
relating to a violation of any provision of Title 26 of the United States Code. This Agreement does
not provide any protection against prosecution for any future conduct by the Company or any of
its present or former parents or subsidiaries. In addition, this Agreement does not provide any
protection against prosecution of any individuals, regardless of their affiliation with the Company
or any of its present or former parents or subsidiaries,

If, during the Term, the Company (a) commits any felony under U.S. federal law;
(b) provides in connection with this Agreement deliberately false, incomplete, or misleading
information, including in connection with its disclosure of information about individual
culpability; (c) fails to cooperate as set forth in this Agreement; (d) fails to implement a compliance
program as set forth in this Agreement and Attachment B; (e) commits any acts that, had they
occurred within the jurisdictional reach of the FCPA, would be a violation of the FCPA; or (f)
otherwise fails to completely perform or fulfill each of the Company’s obligations under the
Agreement, regardless of whether the Fraud Section and the Office becomes aware of such a
breach after the Term is complete, the Company shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any
federal criminal violation of which the Fraud Section and the Office has knowledge, including, but
not limited to, the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts, which may be pursued by
the Fraud Section and the Office in the U.S, District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or
any other appropriate venue, Determination of whether the Company has breached the Agreement
and whether to pursue prosecution of the Company shall be in the Fraud Section and the Office’s
sole discretion. Any such prosecution may be premised on information provided by the Company
or its personnel. Any such prosecution relating to the conduct described in the attached Statement
of Facts or relating to conduct known to the Fraud Section and the Office prior to the date on which
this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the
date of the signing of this Agreement may be commenced against the Company, notwithstanding
the expiration of the statute of limitations, between the signing of this Agreement and the
expiration of the Term plus one year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the Company agrees that
the statute of limitations with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-barred on the date of
the signing of this Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. In addition, the Company
agrees that the statute of limitations as to any violation of U.S. federal law that occurs during the
Term will be tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs until the earlier of the date upon
which the Fraud Section and the Office is made aware of the violation or the duration of the Term
plus five years, and that this period shall be excluded from any calculation of time for purposes of
the application of the statute of limitations.

In the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company has breached
this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office agree to provide the Company with written notice
of such breach prior to instituting any prosecution resulting from such breach. Within thirty days
(30) of receipt of such notice, the Company shall have the opportunity to respond to the Fraud
Section and the Office in writing to explain the nature and circumstances of such breach, as well
as the actions the Company has taken to address and remediate the situation, which explanation
the Fraud Section and the Office shall consider in determining whether to pursue prosecution of
the Company.

i

sly

 
In the event that the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company has breached
this Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Company to the Fraud Section and
the Office, including the attached Statement of Facts, and any testimony given by the Company
before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative hearings, whether prior or
subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads derived from such statements or testimony, shall be
admissible in evidence in any and all criminal proceedings brought by the Fraud Section and the
Office against the Company; and (b) the Company shall not assert any claim under the United
States Constitution, Rule 1 1(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the Federal
Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that any such statements or testimony made by or on
behalf of the Company prior or subsequent to this Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom, .
should be suppressed or are otherwise inadmissible. The decision whether conduct or statements
of any current director, officer or employee, or any person acting on behalf of, or at the direction
of, the Company, will be imputed to the Company for the purpose of determining whether the
Company has violated any provision of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the Fraud
Section and the Office.

Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular
transaction, the Company agrees that in the event that, during the Term, it undertakes any material
change in corporate form, including if it sells, merges, or transfers business operations that are
material to the Company’s consolidated operations, or to the operations of any subsidiaries or
affiliates involved in the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts, as they exist as of
the date of this Agreement, whether such change is structured as a sale, asset sale, merger, transfer,
or other material change in corporate form, it shall include in any contract for sale, merger, transfer,
or other change in corporate form a provision binding the purchaser, or any successor in interest
thereto, to the obligations described in this Agreement. The purchaser or successor in interest must
also agree in writing that the Fraud Section and the Office’s ability to determine whether there has
been a breach under this Agreement is applicable in full force to that entity. The Company agrees
that the failure to include this Agreement’s breach provisions in the transaction will make any such
transaction null and void. The Company shall provide notice to the Fraud Section and the Office
at least thirty (30) days prior to undertaking any such sale, merger, transfer, or other change in
corporate form. The Fraud Section and the Office shall notify the Company prior to such
transaction (or series of transactions) if it determines that the transaction(s) will have the effect of
circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement. If at any time during the
Term the Company engages in a transaction(s) that has the effect of circumventing or frustrating
the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office may deem it a
breach of this Agreement pursuant to the breach provisions of this Agreement. Nothing herein
shall restrict the Company from indemnifying (or otherwise holding harmless) the purchaser or
successor in interest for penalties or other costs arising from any conduct that may have occurred
prior to the date of the transaction, so long as such indemnification does not have the effect of
circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as determined by the
Fraud Section and the Office.

By entering into this Agreement, notwithstanding anything contained herein, the Company
does not prospectively waive any arguments that, as an instrumentality of the Republic of Brazil,
it is protected by sovereign immunity from criminal prosecution in the United States, and it.

| ty

 
reserves the right to assert this argument in any future prosecution or civil action by the United
States.

This Agreement is binding on the Company and the Fraud Section and the Office but
specifically does not bind any other component of the Department of Justice, other federal
agencies, or any state, local or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, or any other
authorities, although the Fraud Section and the Office will bring the cooperation of the Company
and its compliance with its other obligations under this Agreement to the attention of such agencies
and authorities if requested to do so by the Company.

It is further understood that the Company and the Fraud Section and the Office may
disclose this Agreement to the public.

This Agreement sets forth all the terms of the agreement between the Company and the
Fraud Section and the Office. No amendments, modifications or additions to this Agreement shall
be valid unless they are in writing and signed by the Fraud Section and the Office, the attorney
for the Company, and a duly authorized representative of the Company.

Sincerely, Aps

SANDRA MOSER

Acting Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division

United States Department of Justice

Date: Seplember 26, co (§ BY:

   

stopher Cestaro
Lorinda Laryea
Assistant Chiefs, FCPA Unit
Derek Ettinger
Trial Attorney

G. ZACHARY TERWILLIGER
United States Attorney
Eastern District of Virginia

Date: Sepberbu 26, ZovS sy: Mad. KML
Grace L. Ilill
Assistant United States Attorney
AGREED AND CONSENTED TO:

Petréleo Brasileiro S.A. — Petrobras

Date: Sepkn 7 Ee oe 26 LOK BY: ,
} Taisa Maciel

General Counse
Petréleo Brasileiro S.A. — Petrobras

Date: seg danke 26, 20/8 BY: .

Gibson, Dfinn & Crutcher LLP
Counsel for Petréleo Brasileiro S.A, -
Petrobras

LS)

    
 
   

 

 
   

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: SS

Subscribed and sworn to before me by Taisa Maciel, General Counsel, Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. —
Petrobras and F. Joseph Warin, Esquire, of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, Counsel for Petroleo Brasileiro

 

 

S.A. — Petrobras this bt ay of September, 2018 santos
g ey * ba ,
SF. See
/ 25 Oo oO* Oz
—s > f Pott wa [A S?
Dopis L. Stariley; Notafy Public in and for tesDistrictof Colymbia . £7. ES &: we
E4Atg KG fas
% 3 a8 Qi Ss
“ery sy < Rs
«YO  Nescesganseh : oer
MQ ® vi"

DORIS L. STANLEY
"Notary Public of District of Columbia
My Commission Expires August 31, 2021

“aie

10
ATTACHMENT A
) STATEMENT OF FACTS

The following Statement of Facts is incorporated by reference as part of the non-
prosecution agreement (the “Agreement”) between the United States Department of Justice,
Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”), the United States Attorney’s Office for
the Eastern District of Virginia, and Petrdleo Brasileiro S.A, - Petrobras (“Petrobras”), Petrobras
hereby agrees and stipulates that the following information is true and accurate. Petrobras admits,
accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under United States law for the acts of its officers,

directors, employees, and agents as set forth below:

levant Entities and Individuals

1. Petrobras was a Brazilian state-owned-and-controlled oil and gas company
headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and operating in 18 other countries, including the United
States. The vast majority of the Company’s shares traded either on the New York Stock Exchange
in the form of American Depository Shares, on the Sio Paulo Stock Exchange, with the Brazilian
government directly owning approximately 50.26 percent of Petrobras’s common shares with
voting rights, and an additional 9.87 percent of its common shares controlled by the Brazilian
Economic and Social Development Bank as of February 28, 2018, Petrobras’s common and
preferred stock was registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) pursuant to Section 12(b) of the secenties Exchange Act of 1934 as amended and

currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange.
2. Petrobras was an “issuer” as that term is used in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

(“FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-! and 78m(b).

A-l
3. Executive |, a resident and citizen of Brazil whose identity is known to the United
States and Petrobras, was the head of a Petrobras division from approximately 2004 to 2012.
Executive 1 was appointed to his position under the influence of a political party.

4. Executive 2, a resident and citizen of Brazil whose identity is known to the United
States and Petrobras, was the head of a Petrobras division from approximately 2004 to 2012.
Executive 2 was appointed to his position under the influence of a political party.

5. Executive 3, a resident and citizen of Brazil whose identity is known to the United
States and Petrobras, was the head of a Petrobras division from approximately 2003 to 2008 and
the Chief Financial Officer of one of Petrobras’s largest subsidiaries from in or about 2008 to 2014.
Executive 3 was appointed to his position under the influence of a political party.

6. Executive 4, a resident and citizen of Brazil whose identity is known to the United
States and Petrobras, was the head of a Petrobras division from approximately 2008 to 2012.
Executive 4 was appointed to his position under the influence of a political party.

7. Manager I, a resident and citizen of Brazil whose identity is known to the United
States and Petrobras, was a tf ranti manager in a Petrobras division. From approximately
2004 to 2011, he reported to Executive 2.

8. Intermediary |, a resident and citizen of Brazil whose identity is known to the
United States and Petrobras, was an intermediary responsible for transferring bribe payments from
bribe-paying contractors to Executive 1, Brazilian politicians, and Brazilian political parties.

The Board of Executive Officers

9. Executive 1 (2004 to 2012), Executive 2 (2004 to 2012), Executive 3 (2003 to

2008), and Executive 4 (2008 to 2012) were each members of the Petrobras Board of Executive

Officers (“Executive Board”). The Executive Board was the highest level of Company

A-2

 
management and was responsible for managing the Company’s business, pursuant to the mission,
goals, strategies, and guidelines established by the Board of Directors. During the relevant time
period the Executive Board was comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer, and the heads of the Company’s operating and support divisions, these included:
Exploration and Production, International, Gas & Energy, Downstream, and Services. The
Officers on the Executive Board sat at the top of the Petrobras hierarchy, just below the Board of
Directors. Beneath them were Executive Managers, General Managers, Managers, Sector
Managers, Coordinators, and regular employees.

10. Executive 1, Executive 2, Executive 3, Executive 4, and Manager 1 have all been
convicted in Brazil of crimes related to their participation in the corruption at Petrobras that is
described below. Executive 1, Executive 2, Executive 3, and Manager I, have each admitted that
they participated in the corruption at Petrobras, and Executive 2 and Executive 4 are currently
‘serving prison sentences after being convicted at trial in Brazi) for their roles in the corrupt schemes
that were in place at the Company.

11. In addition to receiving bribes, these executives also facilitated and directed
millions of dollar in corrupt payments to politicians and political parties in Brazil, including, in
one instance, directing the payment of illicit funds to stop a Parliamentary Inquiry into Petrobras
contracts.

12. In association with the corrupt schemes, each of these executives, and certain others
who did not receive kickbacks, among other things, knowingly and willfully failed to implement
internal controls, and Executive I, Executive 2, and Executive 4 each falsified the Company’s
books and records by, among other things, signing, and causing to be signed, sub-certifications

attesting to the accuracy and completeness of Petrobras’s disclosures to the SEC that were

A-3

 
knowingly and willfully false. Similarly, Executive 3 knowingly and willfully signed a
management representation letter falsely stating that he was unaware of any fraud affecting the
Company’s subsidiary for which he served as CFO or that would significantly affect that
subsidiary’s financial statements.

13. At the time the corrupt schemes were in place, other individuals at the Company,
including certain members of the Company’s Board of Directors, were aware that Petrobras
contractors were involved in corruption at the time those companies were contracting with
Petrobras and yet they did nothing to stop those companies from doing business with Petrobras or
to investigate the nature and scope of corruption within Petrobras. Indeed, two members of the
Company’s Board of Directors were involved in facilitating bribes that a major Petrobras
contractor was paying to Brazilian politicians.

The Bribery and Embezzlement Schemes

14. Jn or around and between at least 2004 and 2012, Petrobras executives and
managers, including Executive |, Executive 2, Executive 3, Executive 4, Manager 1, and others,
and contractors and suppliers of the Company, facilitated massive bid-rigging and bribery schemes
that, among other things, allowed contractors to obtain contracts from Petrobras through non-
competitive means and caused Petrobras to remain in the favor of many of Brazil's politicians and
political parties,

15. The contractors that engaged in the corruption typically paid bribes totaling
approximately one to three percent of the value of the contracts obtained from Petrobras, which
were then typically split among certain Petrobras executives, Brazilian politicians, Brazilian
political parties, and other individuals who helped facilitate the payment of the bribes.

16. The Petrobras executives and managers, including Executive 1, Executive 2,

A-4

 
Executive 3, Executive 4, and Manager 1, participated in receiving bribes, and also participated in
the facilitation and direction of portions of the corrupt payments to Brazilian politicians and
Brazilian political parties, some of which could affect the Company, including because they had
oversight over the location in which a Company project was being completed.

17. The money to pay the bribes was often funneled through fictitious costs, including
consultancy agreements, incurred by the contractors in association with Petrobras projects and
other projects. Petrobras executives, including Executive 1, Executive 2, Executive 3, Executive
4, and Manager 1, assisted the corrupt contractors by, among other things, creating conditions — in
part through the failure to implerient adequate internal controls — that allowed for the contractors
to continue generating the funds needed to make the corrupt payments. Though the precise number
is unknown, more than U.S, $2 billion has been estimated to have been generated and used to make
corrupt payments, more than approximately U.S. $1 billion of which was estimated to have been
directed to politicians and political parties, some of which could affect the Company.

18. The inflated amounts paid to the corrupt contractors were capitalized as legitimate
costs and hidden as part of the particular contracts, which were recorded in the Company’s books,
falsely inflating the value of certain of the Company’s assets.

19. | Examples of the corrupt schemes follow:

The Abreu e Lima Refinery

20. In or about 2005, Petrobras announced its intention to complete the Abreu e Lima
Refinery (“RNEST”) in the Northeast state of Pernambuco. The RNEST project generated more
than 300 contracts and more than 950 amendments,

21. Petrobras executives named above conspired with contractors and suppliers of the

Company to facilitate millions of dollars in payments to politicians from contractors that obtained

A-5

 
business from Petrobras in association with the RNEST project.

22, For example, in or about 2008 or 2009, Petrobras issued tenders for two contracts
related to services and supplies required for the installation of atmospheric distillation units (UDA)
and hydrogen generation units (HDT) at RNEST. These contracts were awarded in or about 2009,
and together were worth over R$4.67 billion,

23. Before the tenders for these contracts were announced, the then-general manager
of RNEST, who has been criminally prosecuted in Brazil for his role in the scheme, passed
information about the size and initial values of the UDA and HDT units to one of the potential
contractors. That contractor then took the information to a meeting with several other competitor
contractors.

24. Atthe meeting, the contractors decided which of them would have priority over the
projects they had learned about. It was agreed that two construction companies would form a
consortium and submit the lowest tender for the UDA and HDT contracts. Other companies would
have priority over other contracts.

25. After winning the tender for the UDA and HDT contracts, Executive | told a
member of the consortium to pay R$15 million to a Brazilian political party and R$15 million to
Executive 1. When a politician became angry because the amount was lower than he expected,
Executive | assured him that there would not be a lack of opportunities to obtain additional money
in the future.

26. Executive 1 also directed Intermediary | to use bribe payments received from
Petrobras contractors to corruptly pay R$20 million to the campaign of a Brazilian politician who
had oversight over the location where the RNEST refinery was being built. This corrupt payment

to the campaign was made at the specific request of another Brazilian official who oversaw the

A-6

 
port which was meant to receive the oi! that Petrobras would ultimately ship from the RNEST
refinery. The corrupt payment was made after Executive 1 had several meetings with these two
officials to discuss issues related to RNEST.

27. The consortium paid an additional R$30 million in bribes to Executive 2 and
Manager | in exchange for, among other things, Manager | helping the consortium with any
problems that might occur on the project.

The Petrochemical Complex of Rio de Janeiro

28. The Rio de Janeiro State Petrochemical Complex (“COMPERJ”) project also
involved massive corruption and bribery. COMPERJ covered an area of 42 square kilometers and
involved multiple large contracts over a period of more than ten years.

29. In connection with the COMPERJ project, Executive | and the Petrobras
contractors directed corrupt payments to a powerful Brazilian politician who had oversight over
the location where COMPER] was being built, and with whom Executive | had a close working
relationship.

30. Specifically, in or about the first half of 2010, Executive | was called to a meeting
with the Brazilian politician and two other Brazilian officials who were members of his staff.
During the meeting, the officials solicited Executive | for money for the politician’s re-election
campaign fund.

31. Later in 2010, Executive 1 contacted at least six companies that had contracts with
Petrobras for the COMPERJ project to attend a meeting with one of the officials at a hotel in Rio
de Janeiro. Ultimately, each of the companies that were at the meeting, as well as three large
companies that were also working on COMPER\ but were not present at the meeting, paid a total

of R$30 million to the Brazilian politician’s campaign. Executive | admitted to taking part in

A-7
getting the companies to agree to make the corrupt payments to the politician’s campaign.

32. Executive 1, Executive 2, and Manager | also each received millions of dollars in
bribes from contractors that obtained business from Petrobras in association with the COMPERJ
project. In exchange, among other things, Manager | leaked confidential information regarding
certain projects that was used to review bid proposals, and Executive 1 accelerated the schedule
for completing COMPERJ, resulting in procurement commencing, in some cases, without
sufficient technical designs, and providing the bribe-paying contractors with lucrative contracting
opportunities.

Dritlships and Shipyards

33. During their respective tenures on the Petrobras executive board, both Executive 3
and Executive 4 conspired with contractors and suppliers of the Company to facilitate corrupt
payments from Petrobras contractors to politicians and political parties, and also received bribes
for themselves.

34. For example, in or about 2007, Executive 3 received pressure from a government
minister, whose responsibilities both directly and indirectly included oversight of Petrobras and its
activities, to pay an approximately R$50 million campaign debt that was owed to a bank by the
minister’s political party. Executive 3 asked another executive for assistance, and together the
executives agreed that the Company would award business to a ship operating company that was
affiliated with the bank in order to reimburse the bank for the debt owed by the political party.

35. The ship operating company was not the most qualified company to operate the rig
and it was not the top choice to provide the service. In order to avoid another more qualified
company from winning the business, the ship operating company was awarded the contract

directly, without submitting to a competitive bidding process. Neither of the Petrobras executives

A-8

 
involved in this scheme received bribes in association with the contract awarded to the ship
operating company.

36. In addition, in or about and between approximately 2004 and 2012, Manager |
cooperated in the payment of bribes from a Singaporean shipyard company to a political party on
at least six Petrobras projects. Executive 2 and Manager | also received bribes themselves on
those projects, some of which they shared with Executive 4,

37. For example, in or about 2008, a joint venture between an American engineering
company and the shipyard company was invited to bid on a project to build a tension leg platform.

38. In or about 2008, after the invitation to bid, a consultant working for the shipyard
company met with Manager |, who told the consultant that if his company wanted to win the
contract, it would need to pay a percentage of the contract value in bribes to a Brazilian political
party and to Manager 1.

39. The Singaporean company authorized the consultant to pay the bribes and in or
about 2010 the joint venture won the project.

40. Using commissions he received under a consulting agreement, the consultant paid
approximately U.S. $8.8 million in bribes to the Brazilian political party and to Manager 1 in
connection with the project. Manager | also shared some of the bribe money with Executive 2.

41. In another example, in or around and between 2009 and 2010, bribes were paid to
a political party, Executive 4, a former Petrobras manager who worked under Executive 4, and
various intermediaries in order to assist a drillship company in winning a contract with Petrobras
valued at U.S. $1.8 billion for the chartering of a drilling vessel.

42. The owner of the vessel paid approximately U.S. $20.8 million under separate

commission agreements with two different agents in connection with the contract. The two

A-9

 
agreements were signed on the same date, for the same amount, and with the same payment
schedules. The agents then arranged separately, and through various means, to pay the political
party, Executive 4, and the former Petrobras manager their share of the bribes.

False Books and Records

 

43. While the various bribery and bid rigging schemes were ongoing, Petrobras’s
American Depositary Shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and Petrobras was an
“issuer” within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1. Accordingly, Petrobras was required to file
an annual report, including financial statements, with the SEC. For each of the relevant years,
Petrobras filed its annual report with the SEC using Form 20-F, which is the primary disclosure
document used by foreign private issuers that have equity shares listed on exchanges in the United
States.

44. During the scheme, Petrobras failed to make and keep books, records, and accounts
which accurately and fairly reflected the Company’s capitalization of property, plant, and
equipment (“PP&E”), which was overstated on the Form 20-F as a result of the bribes being
generated by the Company’s contractors with the cooperation of certain Petrobras executives.

45. Moreover, Executive 1, Executive 2, and Executive 4, each signed Sarbanes-Oxley
(SOX) 302 sub-certifications while they were involved in, and were aware that other executives at
Petrobras were involved in, obtaining and facilitating the payment of millions of dollars in bribes
to themselves, to Brazilian politicians, and to Brazilian political parties.

46. The SOX 302 sub-certifications signed by the corrupt Petrobras executives required
the executives to certify, in relevant part, that the Form 20-F the Company would be filing with
the SEC did not contain materially false or misleading statements, and that the information

contained therein was accurate. The executives who signed, or caused to be signed, the Form

A-10
20-Fs did not disclose to the market the massive bribery schemes that were ongoing at the
company, and each of the corrupt Petrobras executives knew at the time they signed the SOX 302
sub-certification that the Form 20-F did not include that disclosure.

47. Similarly, Executive 3, while Chief Financial Officer of a subsidiary of Petrobras,
signed a management representation letter that was provided to external auditors of Petrobras
stating, among other things, that he was unaware of any fraud affecting the subsidiary that involved
employees who played a significant role in internal controls or of fraud that would significantly
affect the subsidiary’s financial statements. Executive 3 knew at the time a bribery scheme was
ongoing at Petrobras such that the appointed officers of certain divisions facilitated bribes to
politicians and political parties and in fact received bribes themselves. He also knew that there
were bribes paid to him and to politicians and political parties in connection with multiple business
ventures of the Petrobras subsidiary.

48. Inoraround September 2010, Petrobras closed ona global public offering of equity
securities raising nearly U.S. $70 billion in capital from the Brazilian, U.S., and international
capital markets. Of that total, approximately U.S. $10 billion was raised from American
Depository Shares listed on the New York Stock exchange. The primary goals of the 2010
Offering were to (1) finance the purchase of pre-salt exploration and production rights in the
Brazilian pre-salt basin; and (2) finance a portion of Petrobras’s planned investment program.

Failure to Implement Adequate Internal Controls

49. Petrobras officials described above involved in the scheme at the executive level of
the company who were responsible, in part, for implementing the Company’s internal financial
and accounting controls, knowingly and willfully failed to do so in order to continue to facilitate

bribe payments to Brazilian politicians and Brazilian political parties.

A-II
50. The executives described above, among other things, failed to implement internal
controls over the process of contracting for services relating to Petrobras’s large investment
projects in the E&P, Gas and Power, Refining, Transportation and Marketing (“RTM”), and
International business segments.

51. Throughout the relevant period, the Petrobras executives described above, and
others, knowingly and willfully failed to implement a system of internal accounting controls
designed to detect and prevent the facilitation of bribes to Brazilian politicians and political parties,
and to Petrobras officials. The following internal control deficiencies, among others, facilitated
the ongoing corruption schemes: failure to implement appropriate due diligence procedures for the
retention of third-party vendors; failure to implement sufficient oversight to prevent the revision
of estimates at the conclusion of the bid phase to favor certain bidders; failure to implement
sufficient safeguards to prevent the manipulation of bid participant lists or criteria for selecting bid
invitees to permit the invitation of companies that were not qualified; failure to implement a
selection process that would prevent projects from being improperly awarded through direct
contracting instead of a tender process; and manipulation of bid evaluation criteria to favor bribe-
paying companies.

Petrobras’s Acceptance of Responsibility

52. Petrobras accepts responsibility under United States law for the wrongful acts set
forth above taken by the Petrobras executives and officers, and admits that those acts meet the
vicarious liability and respondeat superior standard for corporate criminal wrongdoing under
United States law and as a result, Petrobras violated all of the elements of the books and records

and internal controls provisions under Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m, 78ff.

A-12
ATTACHMENT B
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

In order to address any deficiencies in its internal controls, compliance code, policies, and
procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. §§
78dd-1, ef seq., and other applicable anti-corruption laws, Petrdéleo Brasileiro S.A. - Petrobras (the
“Company”) agrees to continue to conduct, in a manner consistent with all of its obligations under
this Agreement, appropriate reviews of its existing internal controls, policies, and procedures,

Where necessary and appropriate, the Company agrees to modify its compliance program,
including internal controls, compliance policies, and procedures in order to ensure that it
maintains: (a) an effective system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure the making
and keeping of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts: and (b) a rigorous anti-corruption
compliance program that incorporates relevant internal accounting controls, as well as policies and
procedures designed to effectively detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other applicable
anti-corruption laws. At a minimum, this should include, but not be limited to, the following
elements to the extent they are not already part of the Company’s existing internal controls,
compliance code, policies, and procedures:

High-Level Commitment

I, The Company will ensure that its directors and senior management provide strong,
explicit, and visible support and commitment to its corporate policy against violations of the anti-
corruption laws and its compliance cade.

Policies and Procedures

2 The Company will develop and promulgate a clearly articulated and visible

corporate policy against violations of the FCPA and other applicable foreign law counterparts f

B-l ~

 
(collectively, the “anti-corruption laws,”), which policy shall be memorialized in a written
compliance code.

3. The Company will _— and promulgate compliance policies and procedures
designed to reduce the prospect of violations of the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s
compliance code, and the Company will take appropriate measures to encourage and support the
observance of ethics and compliance policies and procedures against violation of the anti-
corruption laws by personnel at all levels of the Company. These anti-corruption policies and
procedures shall apply to all directors, officers, and employees and, where necessary and
appropriate, outside parties acting on behalf of the Company in a foreign jurisdiction, including
but not limited to, agents and intermediaries, consultants, representatives, distributors, teaming
partners, contractors and suppliers, consortia, and joint venture partners (collectively, “agents and
business partners”). The Company shall notify all employees that compliance with the policies
and procedures is the duty of individuals at all levels of the company. Such policies and procedures

shall address:

a. gifts;
b. hospitality, entertainment, and expenses;
c. customer travel;
d. political contributions;
e. charitable donations and sponsorships:
f. facilitation payments; and
g. solicitation and extortion.
4, The Company will ensure that it has a system of financial and accounting

procedures, including a system of internal controls, reasonably designed to ensure the maintenance

B-2
of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts, This system should be designed to provide
reasonable assurances that:

a. transactions are executed in accordance with managements general or
specific authorization;

b. transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;

c. access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management’s general
or specific authorization; and

d. the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets
at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

Periodic Risk-Based Review

5, The Company will develop these compliance policies and procedures on the basis
of a periodic risk assessment addressing the individual circumstances of the Company, in particular
the foreign bribery risks facing the Company, including, but not limited to, its geographical
organization, interactions with various types and levels of government officials, industrial sectors
of operation, involvement in joint venture arrangements, importance of licenses and permits in the
Company’s operations, degree of governmental oversight and inspection, and volume and
importance of goods and personnel clearing through customs and immigration.

6. The Company shall review its anti-corruption compliance policies and procedures
no less than annually and update them as appropriate to ensure their continued effectiveness, taking

into account relevant developments in the field and evolving international and industry standards.
Proper Oversight and Independence

7. The Company will assign responsibility to one or more senior corporate executives
of the Company for the implementation and oversight of the Company’s anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures, Such corporate official(s) shall have the authority to
report directly to independent monitoring bodies, including internal audit, the Company’s Board
of Directors, or any appropriate committee of the Board of Directors, and shall have an adequate
level of autonomy from management as well as sufficient resources and authority to maintain such
autonomy.

Training and Guidance

8. The Company will implement mechanisms designed to ensure that its anti-
corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures are effectively communicated to all
directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners.
These mechanisms shall include: (a) periodic training for all directors and officers, all employees
in positions of leadership or trust, positions that require such training (e.g., internal audit, sales,
legal, compliance, finance), or positions that otherwise pose a corruption risk to the Company,
and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners; and (b) corresponding
certifications by all such directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners, certifying
compliance with the training requirements.

9. The Company will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
providing guidance and advice to directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and
appropriate, agents and business partners, on complying with the Company’s anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures, including when they need advice on an urgent basis or

in any foreign jurisdiction in which the Company operates.

B-4
Internal Reporting and Investigation

10. The Company will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
internal and, where possible, confidential reporting by, and protection of, directors, officers,
employees, and, where appropriate, agents and business partners conceming violations of the anti-
corruption laws or the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures.

11. The Company will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective and reliable
process with sufficient resources for responding to, investigating, and documenting allegations of
violations of the anti-corruption laws or the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies,
and procedures.

Enforcement and Discipline

12. The Company will implement mechanisms designed to effectively enforce its
compliance code, policies, and procedures, including appropriately incentivizing compliance and
disciplining violations. !

13. The Company will institute appropriate disciplinary procedures to address, among
other things, violations of the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s anti-corruption compliance
code, policies, and procedures by the Company’s directors, officers, and employees. Such
procedures should be applied consistently and fairly, regardless of the position held by, or
perceived importance of, the director, officer, or employee. The Company shall implement
procedures to ensure that where misconduct is discovered, reasonable steps are taken to remedy
the harm resulting from such misconduct, and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to prevent
further similar misconduct, including assessing the internal controls, compliance code, policies,
and procedures and making modifications necessary to ensure the overall anti-corruption

compliance program is effective.

B-5
Third-Party Relationships
14. The Company will institute appropriate risk-based due diligence and compliance
requirements pertaining to the retention and oversight of all agents and business partners,
including:

a. properly documented due diligence pertaining to the hiring and
appropriate and regular oversight of agents and business partners;

b. informing agents and business partners of the Company’s commitment to
abiding by anti-corruption laws, and of the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code,
policies, and procedures; and

c. seeking a reciprocal commitment from agents and business partners.

15. | Where necessary and appropriate, the Company will include standard provisions in
agreements, contracts, and renewals thereof with all agents and business partners that are
reasonably calculated to prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws, which may, depending
upon the circumstances, include: (a) anti-corruption representations and undertakings relating to
compliance with the anti-corruption laws; (b) rights to conduct audits of the books and records of
the agent or business partner to ensure compliance with the foregoing; and (c) rights to terminate
an agent or business partner as a result of any breach of the anti-corruption laws, the Company’s
compliance code, policies, or procedures, or the representations and undertakings related to such
matters.

Mergers and Acquisitions
16. | The Company will develop and implement policies and procedures for mergers and

acquisitions requiring that the Company conduct appropriate risk-based due diligence on potential

B-6
new business entities, including appropriate FCPA and anti-corruption due diligence by legal,
accounting, and compliance personnel.

17. The Company will ensure that the Company’s compliance code, policies, and
procedures regarding the anti-corruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to newly acquired
businesses or entities merged with the Company and will promptly:

a. train the directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners
consistent with Paragraph 8 above on the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s compliance
code, policies, and procedures regarding anti-corruption laws; and

b. where warranted, conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly acquired or
merged businesses as quickly as practicable.

Monitoring and Testing

18. The Company will conduct periodic reviews and testing of its anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures designed to evaluate and improve their effectiveness in
preventing and detecting violations of anti-corruption laws and the Company’s anti-corruption
code, policies, and procedures, taking into account relevant developments in the field and evolving

international and industry standards.

B-7

 
ATTACHMENT C
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE REPORTING

 

Petréleo Brasileiro S.A. - Petrobras (the “Company”) agrees that it will report to the Fraud:

Section and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia (the “Fraud
Section and the Office”) periodically, at no less than twelve-month intervals during a three-year
term, regarding remediation and implementation of the compliance program and internal controls,
policies, and procedures described in Attachment B. During this three-year period, the Company
shall: (1) conduct an initial review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare at least
two (2) follow-up reviews and reports, as described below:

a, By no later than one year from the date this Agreement is executed, the
Company shall submit to the Fraud Section and the Office a written report setting forth a complete
description of its remediation efforts to date, its proposals reasonably designed to improve the
Company’s internal controls, policies, and procedures for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and
other applicable anti-corruption laws, and the proposed scope of the subsequent reviews, The
report shall be transmitted to Deputy Chief - FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S.
Department of Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, NW, Bond Building, Eleventh Floor, Washington,
DC 20530 and the Chief of the Criminal Division, United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern
District of Virginia, Justin W. Williams United States Attorney’s Building, 2100 Jamieson Ave,
Alexandria, VA 22314. The Company may extend the time period for issuance of the report with
prior written approval of the Fraud Section and the Office.

b. The Company shall undertake at least two follow-up reviews and reports
incorporating the Fraud Section and the Office’s views on the Company’s prior reviews and

reports, to further monitor and assess whether the Company’s policies and procedures are

. 4p

 
reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-
corruption laws,

c, The first follow-up review and report shall be completed by no later than
one year after the initial report is submitted to the Fraud Section and the Office. The second
follow-up review and report shall be completed and delivered to the Fraud Section and the Office
no later than thirty days before the end of the Term.

d. The reports will likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and
competitive business information. Moreover, public disclosure of the reports could discourage
cooperation, impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the
objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the
contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except as otherwise agreed to
by the parties in writing, or except to the extent that the Fraud Section and the Office determine in
their sole discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Fraud Section and the Office’s
discharge of their duties and responsibilities or is otherwise required by law.

e. The Company may extend the time period for submission of any of the

follow-up reports with prior written approval of the Fraud Section and the Office.

C-2

 
ATTACHMENT D
CERTIFICATE OF CORPORATE RESOLUTIONS
WHEREAS, Petréleo Brasileiro S.A. - Petrobras (the “Company”) has been engaged in
discussions with the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and
the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia (the “Fraud Section and the
Office”) regarding issues arising in relation to the making and keeping of false books and records
and the failure to implement adequate internal accounting controls; and

WHEREAS, in order to resolve such discussions, it is proposed that the Company enter
into a certain agreement with the Fraud Section and.the Office; and

WHEREAS, the Company’s General Counsel, Taisa Maciel, together with outside counsel
for the Company, have advised the Board of Directors of the Company of its rights, possible
defenses, the Sentencing Guidelines’ provisions, and the consequences of entering into such
agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office;

Therefore, the Board of Directors has RESOLVED that:

1. The Company (a) enters into this non-prosecution agreement (“Agreement”) with
the Fraud Section and the Office; and (b) agrees to accept a total criminal penalty against the
Company totaling $853,200,000, of which $85,320,000 will be paid to the United States Treasury,
and to pay such penalty in accordance with terms set forth in the non-prosecution agreement and
with respect to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts in Attachment A in the manner
described in the Agreement;

2 The Company accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but
not limited to, (a) a knowing waiver for purposes of this Agreement and any charges by the United

States arising out of the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts of any objection with

: N

 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: SS

respect to venue in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia; and (b) a
knowing waiver of any defenses based on the statute of limitations for any prosecution relating to
the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts or relating to conduct known to the Fraud
Section and the Office prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred
by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement;

3. The General Counsel of Company, Taisa Maciel, is hereby authorized, empowered
and directed, on behalf of the Company, to execute the Agreement substantially in such form as
reviewed by this Board of Directors at this meeting with such changes as the General Counsel of
Company, Taisa Maciel, may approve;

4, The General Counsel of Company, Taisa Maciel, is hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to take any and all actions as may be necessary or appropriate and to approve the
forms, terms or provisions of any agreement or other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate, to carry out and effectuate the purpose and intent of the foregoing resolutions; and

5. All of the actions of the General Counsel of Company, Taisa Maciel, which actions
would have been authorized by the foregoing resolutions except that such actions were taken prior
to the adoption of such resolutions, are hereby severally ratified, confirmed, approved, and adopted

as actions on behalf of the Company.

Date: SEXTRABE ys. Ay SONA

Joao Goncalves Gabriel

Subscribed and sworn to before me by Corporate Secretary

Joao Goncalves Gabriel, Corporate Secretary,

ileiro S.A. —B oa thise2b * day of September, 2018 eps
[_—

Petroleo Bra

  
 

Petréleo Brasileiro S.A. - Petrobras

 

 

 

  

; Stanley, Notary Public in and for the BisteiePot Columbia a L. Sr 4
D2 SOS TAB Ke
ig’ i> Bid 3
DORIS L. STANLEY : Eat re
Notary Public of District of a oe eS A is
t 31 So ox
(My Commission Expires August 31, Js Ss *, up Wes >

¢, > “eran eeee™ x
4 Vor F cok

ty
Hawa
