Release Number 8356-21

CFTC Charges New York Man in Multi-Million Dollar Digital Asset Ponzi Scheme Involving
Bitcoin and Ether

January 26, 2021

Washington, D.C. — The Commodity Futures Trading Commission today filed a federal civil enforcement action in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York charging Jeremy Spence of New York, with fraud for operating a
Ponzi scheme involving digital assets such as bitcoin and ether in which he fraudulently solicited more than $5 million of
investments from individuals. The Division of Enforcement’s Digital Assets Task Force was involved in this case.

“Fraudulent schemes, like that alleged in this case, undermine the integrity and development of digital asset markets
and cheat customers out of their hard-earned money,” said Acting Director of Enforcement Vincent McGonagle. “We will
continue to work to protect participants in our markets from fraudulent practices and hold fraudsters accountable.”

In its continuing litigation, the CFTC seeks restitution, disgorgement, civil monetary penalties, permanent trading and
registration bans, and a permanent injunction against further violations of the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC
regulations, as charged.

Related Criminal Action

Earlier today Spence was charged by federal criminal complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York. The CFTC thanks and acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New
York and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Case Background

The complaint alleges that Spence, at times operating as “Coin Signals,” ran a Ponzi scheme in which he fraudulently
solicited and obtained digital assets such as bitcoin and ether worth more than $5 million from customers. According to
the complaint, Spence’s trading resulted in significant trading losses and, as in all Ponzi schemes, his payouts of
supposed profits to customers in actuality consisted of other customers’ misappropriated funds. Spence allegedly
engaged in numerous efforts to conceal his misconduct, including misrepresenting his trading profitability and the
amount of assets he had under management, misappropriating customer funds, and issuing false performance
statements. As stated in the complaint, Spence eventually admitted to his customers that he had engaged in “lies and
deceit.”

The Division of Enforcement staff responsible for this case are Elizabeth C. Brennan, Gates S. Hurand, Christopher Giglio,
K. Brent Tomer, Lenel Hickson, Jr., and Manal M. Sultan.

-CFTC-
