#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT 4° J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, March 2, 2021

Two Men Charged in Ecuadorian Bribery and Money Laundering Scheme

Criminal complaints have been unsealed charging two Ecuadorian citizens for their alleged roles in a bribery and money laundering scheme
involving Ecuador’s public police pension fund (ISSPOL).

John Luzuriaga Aguinaga, 52, and Jorge Cherrez Minho, 46, were each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering in
complaints filed in the Southern District of Florida on Feb. 10 and Feb. 19, respectively. Luzuriaga was arrested Feb. 26 and had his initial
appearance Monday. An arrest warrant has been issued for Cherrez who is believed to be in Mexico.

As alleged in the complaints, between approximately 2014 and 2020, Cherrez, an investment advisor, paid more than $2.6 million in bribes to
ISSPOL officials, including at least approximately $1,397,066 to Luzuriaga, ISSPOL’s Risk Director and a member of ISSPOL’s Investment
Committee, in order to obtain and retain investment business from ISSPOL. Cherrez allegedly obtained approximately $65 million in profits from
one aspect of the scheme.

According to the complaint, Cherrez received payments from the ISSPOL investment business in an account in the United States, used Florida-
based companies and bank accounts to pay the bribes, and took acts in furtherance of the bribery scheme while in the Southern District of
Florida. Further, to conceal and promote the bribery scheme, Cherrez and Luzuriaga allegedly laundered the corrupt proceeds through Florida-
based companies and bank accounts, including numerous U.S. investment fund companies incorporated in Florida with Cherrez as an officer or
director.

Acting Assistant Attorney General Nicholas L. McQuaid of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Kelly Jackson of
the IRS-Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-Cl) Washington, D.C. office, and Special Agent in Charge Anthony Salisbury of U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Miami office made the announcement.

This case is being investigated by HSI and IRS-Cl, jointly under the auspices of the Global Illicit Financial Team. Trial Attorneys Katherine Raut
and Alexander Kramer of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section are prosecuting the case. Southern District of Florida Assistant United States
Attorney Annika Miranda is handling asset forfeiture.

The Justice Department’s Office of International Affairs has provided significant assistance in this case.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) matters. Additional information
about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

To learn more about the government’s FCPA enforcement efforts, go to www. justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

The charges in the complaint are allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.

 

Attachment(s):
Downl herrez complaint
Downl Luzuri moplaint

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):
Criminal Division
Criminal - Criminal Fraud Section

Criminal - Office of International Affairs

Press Release Number:
21-192

Updated March 2, 2021
