cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Fourth Mortgage Company to
Address Deceptive Loan Advertisements Sent to Servicemembers and Veterans

AUG 26, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against PHLoans.com, Inc. (PHLoans), a California corporation that is licensed
as a mortgage broker or lender in about 11 states. Until at least April 2019, PHLoans was
known as Pacific Home Loans, Inc. PHLoans offers and provides mortgage loans guaranteed
by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). PHLoans’s principal means of
advertising VA-guaranteed loans is through direct-mail advertisements sent primarily to
United States military servicemembers and veterans. The Bureau found that PHLoans sent
consumers numerous mailers for VA-guaranteed mortgages that contained false,
misleading, and inaccurate statements or that lacked required disclosures, in violation of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act's (CFPA) prohibition against deceptive acts and
practices, the Mortgage Acts and Practices—Advertising Rule (MAP Rule), and Regulation Z.
The consent order requires PHLoans to pay a civil money penalty and imposes
requirements to prevent future violations.

Today’s action is the fourth case stemming from a Bureau sweep of investigations of
multiple mortgage companies that use deceptive mailers to advertise VA-guaranteed
mortgages. On July 24, 2020, the Bureau announced consent orders against Sovereign
Lending Group, Inc., and Prime Choice Funding, Inc., and on August 21, 2020, the Bureau
announced a consent order against Go Direct Lenders, Inc., for similar violations. The
Bureau commenced this sweep in response to concerns about potentially unlawful
advertising in the market that the VA identified. Accurate and legally compliant advertising
provides consumers with valuable information about the different types of mortgages and
terms available so they can effectively shop for products that best meet their needs. This
ongoing sweep of investigations reflects the Bureau’s commitment to enforcing the laws
that ensure the financial marketplace is fair and accurate for all consumers, including
servicemembers, veterans, and surviving spouses whom VA-guaranteed mortgages are
designed to benefit.

The Bureau found that PHLoans disseminated advertisements that contained false,
misleading, and inaccurate statements or that failed to include required disclosures. For
example, PHLoans advertisements misrepresented the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage loan by stating credit terms that the company was not actually prepared to offer
to the consumer, including misrepresenting the payment amount applicable to the
advertised mortgage and the nature or amount of cash available to the consumer in
connection with the advertised mortgage. PHLoans also made misrepresentations about the
existence and amount of fees or costs to the consumer in connection with the advertised
mortgage. The Bureau also found that PHLoans advertisements failed to properly disclose,
when required by Regulation Z, credit terms for the advertised mortgage, such as the
consumer's repayment obligations over the full term of the loan.

The consent order against PHLoans requires PHLoans to pay a civil penalty of $260,000. The
consent order also imposes injunctive relief to prevent future violations, including requiring
PHLoans to bolster its compliance functions by designating an advertising compliance
official who must review its mortgage advertisements for compliance with mortgage
advertising laws prior to their use; prohibiting misrepresentations similar to those identified
by the Bureau; and requiring PHLoans to comply with certain enhanced disclosure
requirements to prevent future misrepresentations.

The consent order against PHLoans can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_phloans_consent-order_2020-08.pdf
(cfpb.gov/documents/9139/cfpb_phloans_consent-order_2020-08.pdf)

 

The consent order against Sovereign Lending Group, Inc. can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_sovereign-lending-group_consent-

 
rder_2020-07.paf)

The consent order against Prime Choice Funding, Inc. can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_prime-choice-funding_consent-

 

r_2020-07.pdf)

The consent order against Go Direct Lenders, Inc. can be found at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_go-direct-lenders_consent-

 

020-08. pdf)
HH

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
