 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT. OF NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ - - =_- - - _- - — - - - - - - — — a - x
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA SEALED INDICTMENT
- Vv. -
YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and
WEI YANG, oe emnns
Hens . , USDC SDNY
a/k/a “Mary Yang, mah oan
DOCUMENT
ELECTRONICALLY FILED
Defendants. pO th
tr ee ee ee ee = KP DAPE PIL:
. COUNT ONE to —

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Conspiracy to Violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)
The Grand Jury charges:
Relevant Persons and Entities

1. At all times relevant to this Indictment,
“Company-1” was a multilevel marketing company that sold health
care, personal care, and other products in more than 90
countries around the world, including China. Company-1 was
headquartered in Los Angeles, California and maintained a class
of securities pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, which traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Company-1 was required to file periodic reports with
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”)
under Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act. Company-1

was an “issuer” as that term is used in the Foreign Corrupt
 

a
on eet

Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB Documenta Fled 10/22/19 Page 2 of 28
Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code, Sections
78dd-1(a) and 78m.

2. At all times relevant to this Indictment,
Company-1 conducted business operations in China through a group
of wholly-owned subsidiaries based in China (collectively,
“China Subsidiary”). China Subsidiary acted as a division of
Company-1 rather than a separate and independent entity.
Company-1 was a holding company that did not enter into
employment contracts with any individuals. Rather, Company-1’s
employees had employment agreements with Company-1’s various
wholly-owned subsidiaries, and many employees of Company-1's
wholly-owned subsidiaries, including employees of China
Subsidiary, were treated as employees of Company-1 and were

agents of Company-1.

; 3. China Subsidiary’s books, records, and accounts
were consolidated into the financial statements that Company-1
filed with the SEC. Consequently, China Subsidiary’s
expenditures were dispositions of Company-1’s assets, and the
business that China Subsidiary obtained and retained ultimately
benefited Company-1.

4. Company-1 operated as a multi-level marketing
business, including in the United States, but multi-level

marketing was prohibited under Chinese law. Chinese law did,

however, permit a company to engage in “direct-selling” --
 

Case 1:1o-cr-00760-VSB BocumrmentS Fled 10f2e/19 Page 3 of 28

selling a company’s products through independent sales
representatives -- subject to certain requirements. In
particular, as relevant here, before engaging in direct-selling
in any Chinese province, Chinese law required a company to
obtain a direct-selling license from national authorities and
local authorities in that province. China Subsidiary received
direct-selling licenses from several Chinese provinces starting
in or about March 2007. By in or about 2016, China Subsidiary
was responsible for approximately twenty percent of Company-1/’s
worldwide net sales, which exceeded $4 billion.

5. At all times relevant to this Indictment, China
Subsidiary’s External Affairs department (“EA”) was responsible
for interfacing with Chinese governmental agencies and Chinese
government-owned media entities on behalf of Company-1 in China.
EA employees frequently entertained Chinese government officials
at meals and other eventsS and provided gifts to Chinese
government officials. Between in or about 2007 and in or about
2016, China Subsidiary reimbursed EA employees more than $25

million for entertaining and gift giving to Chinese Government
‘

officials.

' 6. From in or about 2004 through in or about
December 2007, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li”, the defendant, was

the Director of Sales and/or Sales Vice President at China

Subsidiary. From in or about December 2007 through in or about
e
at

oe
,
poet
if
&
Seth
re
tab
i
i
vaca
é
o
3
7
Pa
gn
wo
G
rere
wt
3
wd
vat
%
3
ae

April 2017, LI was the Managing Director of China Subsidiary.
In that position, he was Company-1’s most senior employee in
China and primarily responsible for many of China Subsidiary’s
day-to-day operations, including sales. From in or about
December 2012 through in or about February 2017, LI also held
the title of Senior Vice President at Company-1. LI, among
other things, traveled to Company-1’s corporate headquarters in
the United States to meet with Company-1 senior executives;
received promotions determined by Company-1‘s senior executives;
engaged in regular reporting to Company-1’s senior executives at
corporate headquarters; and received Company-1 stock and cash
incentives tied to the value of Company-1 stock as part of his
compensation. At all times relevant to this Indictment, LI was
an “employee” and “agent” of an issuer as those terms are used
in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).
7. At all times relevant to this Indictment, HONGWEI
YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendant, was a high-level
executive at China Subsidiary and the head of EA. YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, was YANG’s direct supervisor.
YANG, among other things, traveled to Company-1’s corporate
headquarters in the United States to meet with Company-1 senior
executives; had her performance reviewed by, and received an

award from, Company-1’s senior executives; engaged in regular

reporting to Company-1‘s senior executives at corporate
Case 1:1o-cr-00760-VSB BocumrentS Fled 10f2e/19 Page 5 of 28

headquarters; and received cash incentives tied to the value of
Company-1 stock as part of her compensation. At all times
relevant to this Indictment, YANG was an employee and agent of
an issuer as those terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).

8. At all times relevant to this Indictment, “Cc-1,”
a co-conspirator not named as a defendant herein, was an
employee of China Subsidiary with responsibility for certain
aspects of China Subsidiary’s finances and internal accounting
controls. CC-1 reported directly to Company-1’s Corporate
management, which, among other things, was involved in reviewing
CC-1's performance and determining CC-1’s compensation,
including CC-1’s payment of Company-1 stock and cash incentives
tied to the value of Company-1 stock. As such, CC-1 was an
employee and agent of an issuer as those terms are used in the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).
9, At all times relevant to this Indictment, various
Chinese provincial and central levels of the Ministry of
Commerce (collectively, “MOFCOM”) were responsible, at least in
part, for issuing licenses required for companies, such as China
Subsidiary, to conduct direct selling in China. MOFCOM was a
“department” and “agency” of a foreign government, as those
terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code,

Section 78dd-1(f£) (1) (A).
 

if
&

10. At all times relevant to this Indictment, various
Chinese provincial and central levels of the State
Administration for Industry and Commerce (collectively, “AIC”)
were responsible, at least in part, for enforcing compliance
with Chinese laws applicable to direct-selling companies, such
as China Subsidiary. AIC had the authority to conduct
investigations into direct-selling companies and to pursue and
impose fines and other penalties against direct-selling
companies, such as China Subsidiary, that it deemed not to be in
compliance with applicable laws. AIC was a “department” and
“agency” of a foreign government, as those terms are used in the
PCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f) (1) (A).

11. At all times relevant to this Indictment, China
Economic Net, a media company in China that published articles
about business and other issues in China, was owned and
controlled by an agency or department of the Chinese government,
and performed a function of the Chinese government. China
Economic Net was an “instrumentality” of a foreign government,
as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code,

Section 78dd-1(£) (1) (A).

The Scheme to Pay Bribes and
Circumvent Internal Accounting Controls

12. From at least in or about 2007 through in or

about February 2017, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI
?
poe
f
©
feet
eg
ot
a
i
nara?
a
.
o
o
7
“n
or .
ee
y ral
poe
at
wo
4
wi
%
et
=i.

YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendants, and others known and
unknown, including CC-1, participated in a scheme to pay bribes
and to circumvent Company-1’s internal accounting controls. The
scheme involved, among other things, bribing Chinese government
officials to obtain and retain business and other benefits for
Company-1; obtaining reimbursement from Company-1 relating to
the illicit bribes through fraudulent reimbursement requests;
and circumventing Company-1’s internal accounting controls so
that the bribery and the profits derived from it would continue.
' 13. More specifically, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,”
and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendants, and others
known and unknown, including CC-1, paid and agreed to pay bribes
to Chinese government officials, including officers and
employees of MOFCOM, AIC, and China Economic Net, for the
purpose of obtaining, retaining, and increasing Company-1’s
business in China by, among other things, (1) obtaining and
retaining China Subsidiary’s licenses to operate as a direct-
selling enterprise in provinces throughout China; (2) corruptly
influencing Chinese governmental investigations into China
Subsidiary’s compliance with Chinese laws applicable to direct-
selling enterprises; and (3) corruptly influencing Chinese
state-owned and state-controlled media for the purpose of

removing negative media reports about China Subsidiary.
pe
"4

Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB Documenta FHed 10/22/19 Page 8 of 28

14. In order to carry out the scheme, YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the
defendants, and others known and unknown, including CC-1,
obtained reimbursement for the bribes from China Subsidiary
through false expense claims designed to conceal the true nature
of the expenditures at issue. In doing so, LI, YANG, and others
known and unknown, including CC-1, circumvented Company-1’s
internal accounting controls related to EA’s expenditure on
gifts and entertainment for Chinese government officials. These
internal accounting controls, among other things, prohibited the
payment of bribes; established limits on the value, frequency,
and nature of expenditures on government officials; and required
EA employees to provide receipts and other specific information,
including the names of the government officials involved, to
obtain approval and reimbursement for their expenditures. LI,
YANG, and others known and unknown, including CC-1, agreed to,
and did, submit and approve fraudulent reimbursement requests,
obtain reimbursement for those fraudulent requests, and conceal
their fraud from Company-1’s Internal Audit department.

15. For example, in or about December 2006, YANLIANG
LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the

defendants, discussed LI’s approval of giving “red envelopes” --

i.e., cash gifts -- to AIC officials, and obtaining
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB Documenta FHed 10/22/19 Page 9 of 28

reimbursement from China Subsidiary for these red envelopes
through Eraudulent invoices.

16. In or about January 2007, during a time in which
China Subsidiary had a pending license application with MOFCOM,
YANLIANG-LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary
Yang,” the defendants, discussed that YANG had “taken care of” a
particular MOFCOM official before YANG had to address questions
from that official. LI stated, “[{T]he money works well on him!”
China Subsidiary received the license from MOFCOM in or about
March 2007.

17. In or about February 2007, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” the defendant, instructed an EA supervisor to tell
two EA employees to falsely submit reimbursement requests.

18. In or about March 2007, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry
Li,” the defendant, asked HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the
defendant, if she agreed to make bribe payments of 35,000 yuan
to various AIC officials, including 10,000 yuan to an official
whom LI identified as an AIC Deputy Director, for the purpose of
minimizing future penalties against China Subsidiary. YANG
responded, “Okay,” so long as their colleague could “guarantee

this . ... to be effective.” LI then said, “I was thinking it

 

4 The statements attributed to the defendants in paragraphs
15 through 24 of this Indictment were made in Mandarin and have
been translated into English.
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page 10 of 28

would be better to spend money beforehand than spend money
afterwards. This money is a small sum after all, and if we were
to be penalized, the figure will be much greater.”

19. In or about September 2010, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” the defendant, in order to prevent the scheme from
being detected by Company-1’s Internal Audit department,
directed CC-1 to provide certain instructions to another
colleague, and added, “Don’t use the company’s email address

I’m afraid it won’t be good for you, right?” LI and CC-1

then agreed to conceal information from Internal Audit about
their expense fraud. CC-1 said, “Of course, some stuff can’t be
talked about .. . things like me switching receipts and so
forth, no need to mention it.” LI responded, “Right, no need to
talk about that.”

20. In or about April 2012, HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary
Yang,” the defendant, told YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the
defendant, that an EA supervisor based in Harbin province had
purchased round-trip airline tickets for a senior AIC official
and his wife in Harbin province. In response, LI warned YANG to
be careful that she and her colleagues do not get caught.

21. In or about September 2012, HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a
“Mary Yang,” the defendant, told YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,”
the defendant, about an issue that China Subsidiary was facing

with AIC in Shanghai. YANG then told LI that EA had spent

10
Case 2:19-cr-00760-VS8 Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page Pi of 28

approximately 20,000 yuan on a shopping trip and a spa visit for
a senior AIC official, his daughter, and her classmates in
Shanghai. That expenditure violated, among other things,
Company-1 policies and controls prohibiting entertaining
relatives of government officials.

22. In or about November 2012, HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a
“Mary Yang,” the defendant, told YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,”
the defendant: “[T]he son of [a senior AIC official in Chifeng
province] is studying at [a Chinese University]. They have a
thing about going to a work unit for an internship, they require
reviews from the places where he did the internships. Our
company is on his list of internships. I don’t know why. His

dad saw that and asked us if our company could help him out and

provide his son with a review . . . and affix our company’s
stamp.” LI responded, “Sure, no big deal.”
23. In the six-month period between in or about July

2012 and in or about December 2012, HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary
Yang,” the defendant, received approximately $772,433 in
reimbursement for purportedly entertaining 4,312 government
officials at 239 meals, or more than one meal per day. YANLIANG
LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, regularly received and
reviewed reports from Company-1’s Internal Audit department

showing the purported expenditures by YANG and EA on

11
entertaining government officials, including these 239 purported
meals.

24. %In or about April 2013, HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary
Yang,” the defendant, told YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the
defendant, that she had met with an official at China Economic
Net who previously had refused to withdraw certain articles
about China Subsidiary. YANG told LI that she said to the
official, “if you destroy[] us, where could you get money?”

YANG further told LI that after the official “ate what he should
eat, drank what he should drink, and used what he should use,”
the official had agreed to withdraw the articles. LI responded,
“you have done a great job!”

25. Between in or about September 2015 and in or
about October 2016, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI
YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendants, and others known and
unknown, approved reimbursement of 920,000 yuan for the
purported purchase of gifts from a particular vendor. These
gifts, which were purportedly for Chinese government and media
officials, were fruits and vegetables from a farm near Yantai,
the city where LI and YANG were from and a city where China
Subsidiary was licensed to do business. LI, and in some
instances YANG, approved reimbursement to YANG and other China

Subsidiary EA employees for receipts showing more than 30 tons

12
er

tow
mh

ot ae

wee eye
Xl ,

SORA ER  TAe ered ORTH
AAG YOU YVAB LIOCUIFIENT Si

. 7

%

SH
p

of produce purchases -- without any documentation indicating
that any produce was actually shipped.

26. YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant,
furthered the scheme and concealed the scheme by, among other
things, routinely creating false records and certifications
disclaiming any knowledge of fraud or circumvention of internal
accounting controls. For example, from at least in or about
2008 to in or about February 2017, on a quarterly and annual
basis, LI signed certifications titled “Statement Regarding
Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings,” which
LI caused to be sent to Company-1’s U.S. headquarters. In these
certifications, which Company-1 relied upon in the preparation
of its public filings with the SEC, LI falsely certified that
“nothing came to my attention that made me question the
effectiveness of [Company-1’s] disclosure controls and
procedures,” and that “[I am] not aware of .. . any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in [Company-1] internal
controls.”

27. YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, in
furtherance of the scheme to pay bribes and circumvent internal
accounting controls, made false statements in sworn

investigative testimony to the SEC on or about October 20 and

21, 2016. In particular, when presented with evidence,

13
Case 2:19-cr-00760-VS8 Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page T4 of 28

including audio recordings, of his participation in the scheme,
LI falsely denied any knowledge of paying bribes or
circumventing Company-1’s internal accounting controls. In
truth and in fact, and as sét forth above, LI was well aware of,
participated in, and endorsed these practices by China
Subsidiary employees.

28. During the period relevant to this Indictment,
YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary
Yang,” the defendants, each participated in more than ten in-
person and online trainings related to Company-1’s anti-fraud
and anti-corruption policies. Furthermore, LI and YANG both
certified repeatedly that they understood and would adhere to
Company-1's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which, among
other things, required compliance with the FCPA.

Statutory Allegations

 

29. From at least in or about 2007 though at least in
or about February 2017, in the Southern District of New York and
elsewhere, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG,
a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendants, and others known and unknown,
willfully and knowingly combined, conspired, confederated, and
agreed together and with each other to commit offenses against
the United States, to wit, to violate the FCPA, in violation of
Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1, 78m(b) (2) (B),

78m(b) (5), 78f£(a), and 78f£(c) (2) (A).

14
30. It was a part and object of the conspiracy that
YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, being an employee.
and agent of an issuer which had a class of securities
registered pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934,
to wit, Company-1, and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the
defendant, being an employee and agent of such issuer, and
others known and unknown, would and did willfully and corruptly
make use of the mails and means and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise
to pay, and authorization of the payment of money, and offer,
gift, promise to give, and authorize the giving of a thing of
value to a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that
all and a portion of such money and thing of value would be
offered, given, and promised, directly and indirectly, toa
foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing an act and
decision of such foreign official in that foreign official's
official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and
omit to do an act in violation of the lawful duty of such
foreign official; (iii) securing an improper advantage; and
(iv) inducing such foreign official to use that foreign
official’s influence with a foreign government and
instrumentality thereof to affect and influence acts and
decisions of such government and instrumentality, in order to

assist such issuer, to wit, Company-1, in obtaining and

15

%
retaining business for and with, and directing business to any
person, to wit, Company-1, China Subsidiary, and others, in
violation of Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1.

31. It was a further part and object of the
conspiracy that YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG,
a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendants, and others known and unknown,
would and did willfully and knowingly circumvent a system of
internal accounting controls at Company-1, an issuer with a
class of securities registered pursuant to the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 that was required to devise and maintain a
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide
reasonable assurances that (i) transactions were executed in
accordance with management’s general and specific authorization;
(ii) transactions were recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles and any other criteria applicable
to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;
(iii) access to assets was permitted only in accordance with
management’s general and specific authorization; and (iv) the
recorded accountability for assets was compared with the
existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action
was taken with respect to any differences, in violation of Title

15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b) (2) (B) and 78m(b) (5).

16
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VS8 Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page TP? of 28

Overt Acts
32. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to effect

the illegal objects thereof, the following overt acts, among
others, were committed in the Southern District of New York and
elsewhere:

a. In or about January 2007, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” the defendant, ratified a bribe payment by HONGWETI
YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendant, in connection with a
pending China Subsidiary license application with MOFCOM.

b. In or about February 2007, YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, instructed an EA supervisor to
tell two employees to falsely re-submit requests for
reimbursement.

Cc. In or about March 2007, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendants,
approved bribe payments of 35,000 yuan to various Chinese
government officials, including 10,000 yuan to an official whom
LI identified as an AIC Deputy Director.

d. In or about February 2013, YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, falsely certified, ina
“Statement Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to
Exchange Act Filings” that, in the preceding fiscal quarter,
“nothing came to my attention that made me question the

effectiveness of [Company-1] disclosure controls and

17
 

procedures,” and that “[I am] not aware of

7

any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other
internal

employees who have a significant role in [Company-1]

controls.”

‘
t

LI further caused this false “Statement Regarding
Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings” to be

sent by email to Company-1 personnel in Los Angeles, California.

e. In or about April 2013, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a

“Jerry Li,” the defendant, ratified a bribe payment by HONGWEI

YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendant, in connection with
YANG’s attempt to suppress negative media reporting about China
Subsidiary by China Economic Net.

£. In or about October 2016,

YANLIANG LI, a/k/a

“Jerry Li,” the defendant, in sworn testimony before the SEC in

New York, in sum and substance, falsely denied having knowledge
of China Subsidiary’s employees paying bribes or circumventing
Company-1's internal accounting controls.
(Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.)
COUNT TWO
(Perjury)
The Grand Jury further charges:

33.

The allegations set forth
through 28 and 32 of this Indictment are

as if fully set forth herein.

'

18

in paragraphs one

repeated and realleged
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VS8 Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page 29 of 28

34. In or about 2013, the SEC opened a formal
investigation into Company-1 for violations of the federal
securities laws.

35. On or about October 20 and 21, 2016, YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” -the defendant, testified under oath before the
SEC in New York, New York in connection with the SEC’s
investigation of Company-1. At the outset of his sworn
testimony, LI, who was represented at such testimony by
attorneys, acknowledged that he had reviewed a written
notification from the SEC that willfully giving false testimony,
or willfully concealing a material fact, would constitute a
federal crime, and that he did not have any questions about such
notification.

36. It was material to the SEC to ascertain, among
other things, the means of communications used by YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, and other employees of Company-
1 to communicate regarding the activities of China Subsidiary.
Accordingly, the SEC asked LI whether (i) he had a personal e-
mail account, and (ii) whether he used any e-mail account other
than his Company-1 e-mail account. LI falsely stated, “No,” in
response to both questions.

37. In truth and in fact, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry
Li,” the defendant, had a personal email account (the “LI Gmail

Account”); LI had used the “LI Gmail Account” throughout 2016;

19
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VS8 Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page 20 of 28
and LI had sent multiple e-mails from the LI Gmail Account
approximately sixteen days prior to his testimony before the
SEC. LI had used the LI Gmail Account for, among other things,
correspondence related to his work at China Subsidiary, and for
correspondence with Company-1 competitors in China and the
United States.

38. For example, in or about August 2013, YANLIANG
LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, sent an e-mail on the LI
Gmail Account to HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendant,
attaching a lengthy article describing anti-corruption
investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and
the SEC related to bribery in China.

| | 39. In or about May 2015, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry

ba," the defendant, instructed an individual at a Company-1
competitor in the United States to contact him on the LI Gmail
Account because “I don’t want to use the company e-mail to talk
about [the competitor’s] business.” LI continued to send e-
mails from the LI Gmail Account to the same individual through
in or about early October 2016. LI also sent additional emails
from the LI Gmail Account to the same individual within a week
of completing his SEC testimony in or about late October 2016.

40. In or about early October 2016, YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, sent an e-mail from the LI

Gmail Account to a different individual who worked at a

20
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VS8 Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page 21 of 28
different Company-1 competitor. LI attached to that e-mail an
internal China Subsidiary document that, among other things,
contained detailed forecasts regarding Company-1's projected
financial performance in China.

41. During his sworn testimony before the SEC on or
about October 20, 2016, the SEC also asked YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” the defendant, whether he had offered any payment to
any government officials at MOFCOM or AIC, and whether he was
aware of any such payments offered by anyone at China
Subsidiary. In response, LI, in sum and substance, falsely
denied having knowledge of China Subsidiary’s employees paying
bribes or circumventing Company-1’s internal accounting
controls.

42. During his sworn testimony before the SEC on or
about October 21, 2016, the SEC played for YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” the defendant, audio recordings of LI, including (a)
a ‘recording from in or about 2006 on which LI and HONGWEI YANG,
a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendant, discussed LI’s approval of
giving “red envelopes” -- i.e., cash gifts -- to AIc officials,
and (b) a recording Erom in or about March 2007 on which LI and
YANG agreed to make bribe payments of 35,000 yuan to various
Chinese government officials, including 10,000 yuan to an
official whom LI identified as an AIC Deputy Director. After

the recordings were played, LI, in sum and substance, again

21
falsely denied having knowledge of China Subsidiary’s employees
paying bribes or circumventing Company-1’s internal accounting
controls.

Statutory Allegation

 

43. On or about October 20 and 21, 2016, in the
Southern District of New York and elsewhere, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” the defendant, having taken an oath before a
competent tribunal, officer, and person, in a case in which a
law of the United States authorized an oath to be administered,
that he would testify, declare, depose, and certify truly,
willfully and contrary to such oath stated a material matter
which he did not believe to be true, to wit, LI, during sworn
testimony before the SEC in connection with the SEC’s

investigation of Company-1, gave the following false underlined

testimony, among other false statements:

Q: Do you have a personal e-mail account?
A: No.
Q: Do you use any e-mail accounts other than

your work e-mail?

A: No.
* * *

Q: Have you offered any payment to any official
at [AIC]?

A: No.

22
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page 23 of 28

Q: Have you ever offered any payments to any
official at MOFCOM?

A: No.

Q: Are you aware of any such payments offered
by anyone at [China Subsidiary] ?
*

A: As far as I know, no.

 

_ (Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1621 and 2.)
COUNT THREE
(Destruction of Records in Federal Investigations)

The Grand Jury further charges:

44. The allegations set forth in paragraphs one
through 28, 32, and 34 through 42 of this Indictment are
repeated and realleged as if fully set forth herein.

45. In or about 2013, a federal grand jury
investigation in the Southern District of New York was opened
into Company-1 for violations of federal criminal law.

46. From in or about 2012 to in or about 2016,
YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” the defendant, received multiple
notices from Company-1's attorneys informing him of his
obligation to retain all Company-1 documents dating back to at
least January 1, 2007 in connection with, among other things,
pending U.S. governmental investigations and potential
litigation. Those directives remained in place at least through

February 2017.

23
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page 24 of 28

47. On or about January 20, 2017, Company-1 stated,

t

in a public filing with the SEC, that, in sum and substance, the
SEC had requested documents and other information related to
Company-1’s anti-corruption compliance in China; Company-1 was
undertaking its own review of that subject; and Company-1 had
discussed these matters with the DOJ. YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry
Li,” the defendant, received e-mails in or about late January
2017 that informed him of the pending SEC and DOJ
investigations.

48. On or about February 11, 2017, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a
“Jerry Li,” the defendant, was informed he would be interviewed
in March 2017 by Company-1'’s attorneys in connection with an
internal investigation into potential misconduct at China
Subsidiary.

49. A few days later, on or about February 17, 2017,
LI installed an application (the “Wiping Application”) onto his
Company-1-issued laptop computer (the “LI Laptop”), which
enabled a user to erase files in a manner that would render the
deleted files unrecoverable. That same day, LI deleted
approximately 200 files from the LI Laptop using the Wiping

Application, many of which had file names associated with LI’s

work at China Subsidiary.

24
Case 119-cr-00760-VSB Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page 25 of 28

Statutory Allegation

 

50. In or about February 2017, in the Southern

District of New York and elsewhere, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry
Li,” the defendant, knowingly altered, destroyed, mutilated,
concealed, covered up, falsified, and made a false entry ina
record, document, and tangible object with the intent to impede,
obstruct, and influence the investigation and proper
administration of matters within the jurisdiction of departments
and agencies of the United States, and in relation to and
contemplation of such matters and cases, to wit, LI, while aware
of pending U.S. governmental investigations, destroyed computer
files with the intent to impede, obstruct, and influence the
investigations into a scheme involving bribes to Chinese
officials for the benefit of Company-1, matters within the
jurisdiction of the DOJ and the SEC.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1519 and 2.)

FORFEITURE ALLEGATION

 

51. As a‘result of committing the offense alleged in
Count One of this Indictment, YANLIANG LI, a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and
HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the defendants, shall forfeit
to the United States, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code,
Section 981(a)(1)(C), and Title 28, United States Code, Section
2461(c), any and all property, real and personal, that

constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to the

25
 

commission of the offense charged in Count One of this
Indictment, including but not limited to a sum of money in
United States currency representing the amount of proceeds
traceable to the commission of said offense.

Substitute Asset Provision

 

52. If any of the above-described forfeitable
property, as a result of any act or omission of YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and HONGWEI YANG, a/k/a “Mary Yang,” the
defendants:
a. cannot be located upon the exercise of due
diligence;
' b. has been transferred or sold to, or

deposited with, a third person;

Cc. has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of
the Court;

d. has been substantially diminished in value;
or

e. has been commingled with other property

which cannot be subdivided without difficulty;
it is the intent of the United States, pursuant to Title 21,
United States Code, Section 853(p), and Title 28, United States

Code, Section 2461(c), to seek forfeiture of any other property

26
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB Documents Filed 10/22/19 Page:

ae
2
“
Bm
om

of the defendants up to the value of the above forfeitable
property.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 981 and 982;
Title 21, United States Code, Sections 853; and
Title 28, United States Code, Section 2461.)

Cospouy S: Porman/ou
EPERSON GEOFFKRY s| BERMAN
10/2219 United States Attorney

Southern District of New York

Rohe Zils.
ROBERT ZINK

Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division

U.S. Department of Justice

27
Case 1:19-cr-00760-VSB DocumentS Filed 10/22/19 Page 28 of 28

Form No. USA-33s-274 (Ed. 9-25-58)

 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vv.
YANLIANG LI,
a/k/a “Jerry Li,” and
HONGWEI YANG,
a/k/a “Mary Yang,”

Defendants.

 

SEALED INDICTMENT

 

19 Cr.

(15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1, 78m(b) (2) (B), 78m(b) (5), 78ff (a),
78f££(c) (2) (A); 18 U.S.C. §§ 371, 1519, 1621, & 2.)

GEOFFREY S. BERMAN

United States Attorney
Southern District of New York

 

ROBERT ZINK
Chief, Fraud Section, Criminal
Division, U.S. Department of Justice

A tims Le fon /9

Foreperson

 

 

Och. 22.19.
File Sealed aidickmnent.
