Press Release

SEC Charges Pfizer with FCPA Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2012-152

Washington, D.C., Aug. 7, 2012 — The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged Pfizer Inc. with violating the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA) when its subsidiaries bribed doctors and other health care professionals employed by foreign governments in order to
win business.

The SEC alleges that employees and agents of Pfizer’s subsidiaries in Bulgaria, China, Croatia, Czech Republic, Italy, Kazakhstan, Russia, and
Serbia made improper payments to foreign officials to obtain regulatory and formulary approvals, sales, and increased prescriptions for the
company’s pharmaceutical products. They tried to conceal the bribery by improperly recording the transactions in accounting records as
legitimate expenses for promotional activities, marketing, training, travel and entertainment, clinical trials, freight, conferences, and
advertising.

The SEC separately charged another pharmaceutical company that Pfizer acquired a few years ago - Wyeth LLC - with its own FCPA
violations. Pfizer and Wyeth agreed to separate settlements in which they will pay more than $45 million combined to settle their respective
charges. In a parallel action, the Department of Justice announced that Pfizer H.C.P. Corporation agreed to pay a $15 million penalty to
resolve its investigation of FCPA violations.

“Pfizer subsidiaries in several countries had bribery so entwined in their sales culture that they offered points and bonus programs to
improperly reward foreign officials who proved to be their best customers,” said Kara Brockmeyer, Chief of the SEC Enforcement Division's
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit. “These charges illustrate the pitfalls that exist for companies that fail to appropriately monitor potential
risks in their global operations.”

According to the SEC’s complaint against Pfizer filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, the misconduct dates back as far as
2001. Employees of Pfizer’s subsidiaries authorized and made cash payments and provided other incentives to bribe government doctors to
utilize Pfizer products. In China, for example, Pfizer employees invited “high-prescribing doctors” in the Chinese government to club-like
meetings that included extensive recreational and entertainment activities to reward doctors’ past product sales or prescriptions. Pfizer China
also created various “point programs” under which government doctors could accumulate points based on the number of Pfizer prescriptions
they wrote. The points were redeemed for various gifts ranging from medical books to cell phones, tea sets, and reading glasses. In Croatia,
Pfizer employees created a “bonus program” for Croatian doctors who were employed in senior positions in Croatian government health care
institutions. Once a doctor agreed to use Pfizer products, a percentage of the value purchased by a doctor’s institution would be funneled
back to the doctor in the form of cash, international travel, or free products.

According to the SEC’s complaint, Pfizer made an initial voluntary disclosure of misconduct by its subsidiaries to the SEC and Department of
Justice in October 2004, and fully cooperated with SEC investigators. Pfizer took such extensive remedial actions as undertaking a
comprehensive worldwide review of its compliance program.

The SEC further alleges that Wyeth subsidiaries engaged in FCPA violations primarily before but also after the company’s acquisition by Pfizer
in late 2009. Starting at least in 2005, subsidiaries marketing Wyeth nutritional products in China, Indonesia, and Pakistan bribed government
doctors to recommend their products to patients by making cash payments or in some cases providing BlackBerrys and cell phones or travel
incentives. They often used fictitious invoices to conceal the true nature of the payments. In Saudi Arabia, Wyeth’s subsidiary made an
improper cash payment to a customs official to secure the release of a shipment of promotional items used for marketing purposes. The
promotional items were held in port because Wyeth Saudi Arabia had failed to secure a required Saudi Arabian Standards Organization
Certificate of Conformity.

Following Pfizer’s acquisition of Wyeth, Pfizer undertook a risk-based FCPA due diligence review of Wyeth’s global operations and voluntarily
reported the findings to the SEC staff. Pfizer diligently and promptly integrated Wyeth’s legacy operations into its compliance program and
cooperated fully with SEC investigators.

In settling the SEC’s charges, Wyeth neither admitted nor denied the allegations. Pfizer consented to the entry of a final judgment ordering it
to pay disgorgement of $16,032,676 in net profits and prejudgment interest of $10,307,268 for a total of $26,339,944. Wyeth also is required
to report to the SEC on the status of its remediation and implementation of compliance measures over a two-year period, and is permanently
enjoined from further violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Wyeth consented to the entry
of a final judgment ordering it to pay disgorgement of $17,217,831 in net profits and prejudgment interest of $1,658,793, for a total of
$18,876,624. As a Pfizer subsidiary, the status of Wyeth’s remediation and implementation of compliance measures will be subsumed in
Pfizer's two-year self-reporting period. Wyeth also is permanently enjoined from further violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of
the Exchange Act. The settlements are subject to court approval.

The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Michael Catoe and Charles Cain of the Enforcement Division’s FCPA Unit. The SEC acknowledges
the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in this matter.

HE
Related Materials
e SEC Complaint Against Pfizer

e SEC Complaint Against Wyeth

e More SEC FCPA Cases
