COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
Three Lafayette Centre
1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, DC 20581
Telephone: (202) 418-5000
Facsimile: (202) 418-5521
www.cftc.gov

 

+ 1975 *

Division of

 

Enforcement MEMORANDUM
TO: Division of Enforcement Staff
FROM: James M. McDonald

Director, Division of Enforcement

DATE: September 10, 2020

SUBJECT: Guidance on Evaluating Compliance Programs in Connection with
Enforcement Matters

As part of any enforcement matter, Commodity Futures Trading Commission “CFTC” or
Commission’) Division of Enforcement (“Division’’) staff may undertake a review and assessment of
compliance programs of Commission registrants or other participants in our markets. To ensure
consistency and transparency, this guidance provides a framework for Division staff conducting such a
review (“Compliance Guidance’). This Compliance Guidance will be set forth in the Enforcement
Manual,’ and will be binding on Division staff.

In May 2020, the Division provided guidance to staff concerning factors that should be
considered in recommending an appropriate civil monetary penalty to the Commission in an
enforcement action (“Penalty Guidance”).’ Among other factors, the Penalty Guidance directs staff to
consider any relevant mitigating or aggravating circumstances, including “the [e]xistence and
effectiveness of the company’s pre-existing compliance program” and post-violation “efforts to improve
a compliance program.” Staff may also evaluate a company’s compliance program in connection with
non-monetary terms of a resolution, such as remediation or other undertakings.

In evaluating a corporate compliance program, the Division will consider, among other things,
whether the compliance program was reasonably designed and implemented to achieve three goals: (1)

 

' See Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Enforcement Manual (2020)

https://www.cftc.gov/LawRegulation/Enforcement/EnforcementManual.pdf.
° This Compliance Guidance is not binding on the Commission or any other Division or office of the Commission. It
is not intended to be, and may not be, relied upon to create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by any
party, nor does it create any specific obligations or safe harbors for Commission registrants or other market participants. This
Compliance Guidance represents the current views of the Division and does not mandate a particular outcome in any specific
case.

; Memorandum from James M. McDonald, Director CFTC, Civil Monetary Penalty Guidance (May 20, 2020),
https://www.cftc.gov/media/3896/EnfPenalty Guidance052020/download; see also Enforcement Manual § 6.8.1.

4 Id. at Section II, A and D.
September 10, 2020

prevent the underlying misconduct at issue; (2) detect the misconduct; and (3) remediate the misconduct.
The Division will further consider whether, upon discovery of any misconduct, the compliance program
itself has been reviewed and modified to address any deficiencies. At all points, the Division will
conduct a risk-based analysis, taking into consideration a variety of factors such as the specific entity
involved, the entity’s role in the market, and the potential market or customer impact of the underlying
misconduct.

Division staff shall consult as appropriate with other Divisions that have relevant knowledge,
experience, or expertise.” An assessment of whether the relevant aspects of a compliance program
adequately met the goals of preventing, detecting, and remediating misconduct will depend on the
specific facts and circumstances.

In conducting its analysis, Division staff should consider the following:

1. Prevention: Was the program reasonably designed and implemented to effectively prevent
the misconduct at issue? Evaluation of this factor should include consideration of, among
other things, whether:

a. written policies and procedures in effect throughout the period of misconduct reasonably
addressed the type of misconduct at issue:°

b. training of staff, supervisors, and compliance personnel reasonably addressed the type of
misconduct at issue;

c. a failure to cure any previously identified deficiencies in the compliance program
contributed to, or failed to prevent, the misconduct at issue (a failure to satisfactorily
address regulatory findings is of particular significance);

d. adequate resources, including funds, had been devoted to compliance; and

e. the structure, oversight, and reporting of the compliance function is sufficiently
independent from the business functions.

2. Detection: Was the program reasonably designed and implemented to effectively detect the
misconduct at issue? This analysis will consider whether the misconduct was independently
identified through compliance mechanisms as well as the processes and procedures in place

 

° Division staff will also consider where appropriate and relevant similar guidance issued by other U.S. government

agencies or a Self-Regulatory Organization (“SRO”) such as the National Futures Association, futures exchanges, and swap
execution facilities. See, e.g., U.S. Department of Justice Criminal Division, Evaluation of Corporate Compliance Programs
(updated April 2019), available at https://www.justice.gov/criminal-fraud/page/file/937501/download.

6 Staff should also consider whether the compliance policies and procedures were updated to reflect current rules and
regulations as well as relevant guidance and other legal developments.
September 10, 2020

aimed at detecting misconduct. Evaluation of this factor should include consideration of,
among other things, the adequacy of:

a. internal surveillance and monitoring efforts;

b. the organization’s internal-reporting system and its handling of complaints (including
provisions for anonymous complaints and protection for whistleblowers); and

c. procedures for identifying and evaluating unusual or suspicious activity to determine
whether any misconduct has occurred, with due regard for the sources, gravity, and extent
of the organization’s risk of violations.’

3. Remediation: Upon discovery of the misconduct, what steps were taken to assess and
address both the misconduct and any deficiencies in the compliance program that may have
permitted the misconduct to occur or initially evade detection? Evaluation of this factor
should include consideration of, among other things, whether, in a sufficient and timely
manner, appropriate action was taken to:

a. effectively address any impact of the misconduct, including to mitigate and cure any
financial harm to others and restore integrity to the relevant markets;

b. appropriately discipline the individuals directly and indirectly responsible for the
misconduct; and

c. identify and address any deficiencies in the compliance program that may have
contributed to a failure to prevent or quickly detect the misconduct.®

If you have questions concerning this guidance, please consult with your Deputy Director and
the Office of Chief Counsel.

 

7 Relevant considerations may also include whether efforts to detect and evaluate potential wrongdoing were narrowly

tailored (e.g., covering only a specific individual, product, date, etc.) or sufficiently broad to uncover similar misconduct
involving other employees, divisions, or products and whether questions and concerns were appropriately elevated.

. See, e.g., 17 C.F.R. § 3.3(e)(5). The Penalty Guidance and the Division’s Cooperation Advisories similarly specify

mitigation of harm and disciplinary actions taken as factors that will be taken into account in determining the recommended
civil monetary penalty. See, e.g., Enforcement Advisory: Cooperation Factors in Enforcement Division Sanction
Recommendations for Companies,

https://www.cftc. gov/sites/default/files/idc/groups/public/@ lrenforcementactions/documents/legalpleading/enfadvisorycomp
aniesO11917.pdf; Enforcement Advisory: Updated Advisory on Self Reporting and Full Cooperation,

https://www.cftc. gov/sites/default/files/idc/groups/public/@ lrenforcementactions/documents/legalpleading/enfadvisoryselfre
porting0917.pdf (together “Cooperation and Self Reporting Advisories’).
