UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 86159 / June 20, 2019

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 4054 / June 20, 2019

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-19207

 

 

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
WALMART INC., EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-
Respondent. AND-DESIST ORDER
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Walmart Inc. (“Walmart,” “the Company,” or
Respondent”).

I.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Walmart has submitted an Offer of
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over
Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order
Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

Hil.

On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds' that:

 

! The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any

other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

1
Summary

1. This matter concerns violations of the books and records and internal accounting
controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (““FCPA”) by Walmart, a global retailer.
From in or around July 2000 through in or around April 2011, Walmart’s subsidiaries in Brazil,
China, India, and Mexico operated without a system of sufficient anti-corruption related internal
accounting controls. As a result, during this time period, those Walmart subsidiaries paid certain
third-party intermediaries (“TPIs”) without reasonable assurances that certain transactions were
consistent with their stated purpose or consistent with the prohibition against making improper
payments to government officials. Additionally, during this time period, when Walmart learned of
certain anti-corruption risks, the Company did not either sufficiently investigate the allegations or
sufficiently mitigate the known risks.

Respondent

2. Walmart is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business located in
Bentonville, Arkansas. Walmart had a class of securities registered under Section 12(b) of the
Exchange Act during the relevant time period. The Company’s shares trade on the New York
Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “WMT.”

Other Relevant Entities and Individuals

3. Mexico Subsidiary is a Walmart subsidiary that operates retail stores in Mexico.
Walmart has a majority equity stake in Mexico Subsidiary with the remaining shares traded on the
Mexican Stock Exchange.

4. China Subsidiary is Walmart’s wholly owned subsidiary that operates Walmart’s
stores in China.

5. Brazil Subsidiary was Walmart’s wholly owned subsidiary that operated
Walmart’s stores in Brazil.

6. India Joint Venture was a joint venture with India Partner that was majority
owned and controlled by Walmart and operated wholesale stores and distribution centers in India.

7. India Retail Business was a franchisee of Walmart that operated retail stores in
India.

8. India Subsidiary was Walmart’s wholly owned subsidiary that was the franchisor
of India Retail Business.

9. India Partner was India Subsidiary’s Joint Venture partner and the owner of India
Retail Business.

10. Walmart Executive was a Walmart International senior real estate employee.

11. Walmart Lawyer was a Walmart International senior attorney.
12. Walmart Compliance Employee was a Walmart International compliance

employee.

13. Walmart Investigator was a Walmart special investigator.

14. Mexico Subsidiary Executive A was a Mexico Subsidiary senior officer.

15. Mexico Subsidiary Executive B was a Mexico Subsidiary senior real estate
executive.

16. Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A was a Mexico Subsidiary real estate attorney.

17. Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer B was a Mexico Subsidiary senior attorney.

18. Mexico Subsidiary Internal Auditor was a Mexico Subsidiary senior audit
employee.

19. Outside Lawyer was an attorney retained by Walmart to investigate certain anti-

corruption allegations in Mexico.

20. Brazil Construction Firm was a construction firm retained by Brazil Subsidiary to
build and renovate certain stores in Brazil.

FACTS

Background

21. At the end of Walmart’s fiscal year 1990, the Company had 1,528 stores which had
generated annual sales of $26 billion—all within the United States. Walmart, recognizing that
international expansion could help it become the world’s largest retailer, entered its first foreign
market, Mexico, in 1991. In 1993, Walmart established Walmart International as an operating
segment, headquartered in Bentonville, Arkansas, responsible for overseeing the Company’s
operations outside the United States. Between 1994 and 1996, the Company established additional
outposts in other countries, including Brazil and China. During fiscal year 2010, the year in which
Walmart opened its first Indian wholesale outlet, the Company operated stores in 14 foreign
countries, with international sales of approximately $100 billion.

22. | Walmart’s formula for success centered on Everyday Low Prices and Everyday
Low Cost. Walmart’s rapid international growth, combined with its low-cost philosophy,
contributed to the Company’s insufficient anti-corruption related internal accounting controls in
Walmart’s subsidiaries in Mexico, India, China, and Brazil from in or around July 2000 until in or
around April 2011.

Early Corruption Warnings

23. In or around 2002 and 2003, Walmart received a request for FCPA training from
China Subsidiary and also a request for a detailed FCPA policy covering TPIs and joint venture
partners for China Subsidiary. Walmart did not immediately provide widespread anti-corruption

3
training to China Subsidiary or implement TPI and joint venture anti-corruption policies at China
Subsidiary.

24. In or around June 2003, China Subsidiary identified a potentially troubling
historical payment made by a certain China Subsidiary joint venture. In 1999 or 2000, the joint
venture had entered into an agreement to pay RMB 500,000 (approximately $60,000) to the
landlord of a China Subsidiary store for government relationship consulting services and various
permits. The permit costs should have likely been nominal but China Subsidiary did not further
inquire into the matter at the time.

25. In or around October 2003, China Subsidiary’s internal audit team analyzed gifts
with an average dollar value of less than $20 given to Chinese government officials by China
Subsidiary corporate affairs employees and small amounts of cash provided to other Chinese
officials for travel and meal expenses related to business meetings by the Chinese partner of a
China Subsidiary joint venture. China Subsidiary’s internal audit team observed that these
transactions appeared to be inconsistent with corporate policy. China Subsidiary’s internal audit
team also observed that certain China Subsidiary anti-corruption related internal accounting
controls had weaknesses. In response, Walmart did not promptly implement all of China
Subsidiary internal audit’s suggested remedial actions.

Walmart’s First Anti-Corruption Compliance Program

26. In or around 2001, Walmart’s anti-corruption policy consisted of a paragraph in the
Company’s Statement of Ethics. The paragraph summarized the FCPA’s prohibitions and
described the statute’s facilitating payment exception and the procedure for making such payments.
In or around July 2002, Walmart planned to implement a worldwide comprehensive anti-
corruption compliance and training program within a few months. In or around 2003, Walmart
prepared draft anti-corruption compliance materials. However, nearly a year passed before the
Company took additional steps to revise the proposed anti-corruption compliance program.

27. Walmart published its International Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures on or
around March 21, 2005, and distributed them to the Company’s foreign markets. In or around
November 2005, the implementation of Walmart’s anti-corruption compliance program was
formally put on hold until further notice.

Mexico

28. On or around September 21, 2005, Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A, who had been
separated from Mexico Subsidiary over a year earlier, wrote an email to Walmart Lawyer. In the
email, Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A stated that he was responsible for many real estate projects in
Mexico from 1975 through 2004 and wrote, “[I]f you’re interested to know confidential details
about the way we achieved 300 projects...contact me and in that case, I would ask you do it before
you contact [Mexico Subsidiary] because the kind of issues (for instance, we used to undercover
expenses identified with a code known and authorized by the highest levels).”

29. Walmart retained Outside Lawyer to advise the Company in response to Mexico
Subsidiary Lawyer A’s allegations. During the first half of October 2005, Outside Lawyer
interviewed Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A twice. Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A alleged that during

4
his last six to seven years at Mexico Subsidiary, Mexico Subsidiary had very aggressive growth
goals that required new stores to open in record time. He further alleged that Mexico Subsidiary
frequently employed TPIs, known as gestores, who in some cases made improper payments to
Mexican government officials to obtain licenses, permits, and other approvals for certain store
projects in Mexico. He also detailed several projects where he claimed Mexico Subsidiary made
improper payments to obtain licenses, permits, and other approvals.

30. Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A alleged the scheme worked in the following manner:

a. Mexico Subsidiary would determine which government officials
needed to receive an improper payment to obtain a permit or license.
Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A would then tell one of the gestores
which official to make an improper payment to and then obtained
checks from Mexico Subsidiary payable to the gestores.

b. The gestores cashed the checks and delivered the agreed-upon
improper payments.

C. Occasionally, the officials preferred to deal only with Mexico
Subsidiary Lawyer A. In those instances, according to Mexico
Subsidiary Lawyer A, the gestores provided cash to Mexico
Subsidiary Lawyer A who made the improper payments himself.

d. Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A and Mexico Subsidiary Executive B
developed a system of three-digit codes, or claves, which were typed
or handwritten on the gestores’ invoices and tracked the improper
benefits obtained by Mexico Subsidiary.

e. The clave descriptions included: “avoidance or omission of
requirement;” “influence, control, or knowledge of privileged
information in the head of the governmental office;” and “payments

to eliminate fines.”

f. Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A claimed that Mexico Subsidiary
Executive A, Mexico Subsidiary Internal Auditor, and Mexico
Subsidiary Lawyer B—who had been named Mexico Subsidiary’s
compliance officer after Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A left Mexico
Subsidiary—also participated in the scheme.

31. Mexico Subsidiary’s use of real estate gestores stopped after Mexico Subsidiary
Lawyer A was separated from the Company in or around August 2004 and before Walmart’s 2005
investigation into the gestores allegations.

32. Walmart retained a law firm to initially advise the Company regarding Mexico
Subsidiary Lawyer A’s allegations and decided to use internal audit and corporate investigations
employees to conduct an investigation in Mexico. In mid-November 2005, these “preliminary
inquiry” teams spent two weeks in Mexico investigating the allegations. While there, they
identified a draft March 2004 Mexico Subsidiary internal audit review of gestoria payments that

5
had not previously been shared with Walmart internal audit executives and employees in the
United States. The final report that was sent to Walmart in December 2004 omitted references,
contained in earlier versions, to MXN $45.6 million (approximately USD $4 million) paid to one
of the gestores that Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer A alleged was corrupt. While the draft report stated
that the transactions reviewed were reasonably appropriate, complied with documentation and
classification standards, and were compliant with local policies, legislation and generally accepted
accounting principles, it also described “unusual” and “facilitating” payments made in connection
with Mexico Subsidiary’s use of gestores. The final report provided to Walmart in December 2004
had also omitted these references to suspicious transactions.

33. In or around November 2005, a Mexico Subsidiary employee explained to
investigators that when problems arose when obtaining licenses, Mexico Subsidiary typically
negotiated a payment with the relevant official to resolve the problem. The same employee,
although unsure whether improper payments were made to government officials, said that Mexico
Subsidiary utilized gestores to “smooth out the road” so that “there would not be any bumps during
the request for a license.” The employee also conceded that it was unusual that Mexico Subsidiary
paid the gestores when most of the payments were supported by only one invoice and that no
records showed what work they did, with whom they met, or how many hours they worked.

34. In or around December 2005, Walmart Investigator circulated a report concerning
the Mexico Subsidiary allegations that stated that laws had been potentially violated, and
recommended several additional investigative steps.

35. Walmart internal audit produced its own report one week later, which indicated that
the work performed constituted only a preliminary review of the gestoria payments and that the
auditors were unable to determine how the gestores used the funds received from Mexico
Subsidiary. The report also made several recommendations for investigative next steps.

36. Walmart did not follow the investigators’ proposed action plans. On or around
February 7, 2006, Walmart tasked Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer B with leading the remainder of the
investigation.

37. In March 2006, Mexico Subsidiary Lawyer B prepared his investigative report,
which concluded that the corruption allegations were unsubstantiated. However, it did
acknowledge that certain of Mexico Subsidiary’s anti-corruption related internal accounting
controls were deficient and, although some improvements had been made, certain additional anti-
corruption related internal accounting controls were recommended. Walmart did not address those
recommendations by implementing sufficient anti-corruption related internal accounting controls
until in or around April 2011.

38. Another corruption risk identified was Mexico Subsidiary’s practice of donations in
the form of checks, cash, and merchandise to Mexican municipalities and local government
entities. In some instances, the donations were made around the time Mexico Subsidiary obtained
permits and licenses or other government approvals. Some of the goods donated, such as cars and
computers, were capable of being converted to personal use. Mexico Subsidiary did not implement
sufficient internal accounting controls regarding the use of donations until in or around April 2011.
China

39. Between in or around 2006 to in or around early 2011, China Subsidiary’s internal
audit team identified certain weaknesses in anti-corruption related internal accounting controls. In
January 2006, it observed: China Subsidiary’s draft anti-corruption policy and procedures were
inconsistent with the policy adopted by Walmart in or around March 2005; China Subsidiary’s
policy excluded employees of state-owned and state-controlled enterprises from the definition of
“government official;” and formal anti-corruption training at China Subsidiary had not yet been
provided and most Chinese managers were unfamiliar with the FCPA and misunderstood the
concept of facilitating payments. Other anti-corruption related internal accounting controls
weaknesses at China Subsidiary observed by China Subsidiary internal audit included lack of TPI
retention procedures and lack of a charitable donation policy. Although internal audit raised
recurring issues during this time period, China Subsidiary’s anti-corruption related internal
accounting controls were not improved until in or around April 2011.

India

AO. In or around late 2006, Walmart conducted a review of India Partner. The initial
due diligence, while generally positive, raised certain anti-corruption red flags about doing
business in India. One report stated that Walmart would “be targeted by corrupt individuals and
organizations seeking bribes or kickbacks in exchange for favorable business relationships or the
easing of bureaucratic restrictions.” The report also said that corruption would likely cause
Walmart “delays in the processing of permits, licenses and other paperwork.” The report suggested
that Walmart could mitigate its corruption risk with “[s]trict adherence” to the FCPA and by
establishing “strong internal controls and management oversight.”

41. In or around November 2006, prior to the formation of India Joint Venture, a
Walmart real estate employee wrote to Walmart Executive that he had received a “wink and nod”
when he “brought up transparency and clean transactions relative to the FCPA” with an employee
of India Partner. The India Partner employee also admitted that “speed payments” were used in the
past by India Partner. Walmart did not sufficiently address the Walmart real estate employee’s
warning prior to forming India Joint Venture.

42. Because of certain anti-corruption related red flags, Walmart obtained additional
due diligence reports and reviewed their results.

43. Walmart entered the Indian market in partnership with India Partner. Due to foreign
direct investment restrictions, Walmart proposed that retail operations initially be franchised to
India Partner with a wholesale business structured as a joint venture majority owned by Walmart.
In or around August 2007, Walmart and India Partner executed franchise and joint venture
agreements. Walmart tasked its partner with obtaining all licenses, permits, certifications, and
zoning for retail stores in India.

44. Between in or around March 2009 and in or around January 2011, Walmart’s
internal audit team in India conducted at least three reviews of India Subsidiary and India Joint
Venture. All of those reviews identified certain weaknesses in anti-corruption related internal
accounting controls that required remediation, which were not immediately addressed. During this

7
time period, Walmart continued to rely on India Partner for permitting, licensing, and real estate
matters for retail stores in India.

45. In or around July 23, 2011, an anonymous source sent an email to certain Walmart
executives alleging several issues. According to the anonymous email, an employee of India Joint
Venture and an employee of India Retail Business were involved in a scheme to make improper
payments to government officials to obtain store operating permits and licenses, and that a senior
legal employee of India Joint Venture knew about the scheme. Although one executive requested
that Walmart investigators examine the allegations, Walmart did not conduct an inquiry at that
time.

46. Despite the audit reports discussing control deficiencies and the anonymous email
alleging improper payments to government officials, Walmart did not begin to implement and
maintain a system of sufficient internal accounting controls related to anti-corruption to address
corruption concerns in India until in or around April 2011.

47. Because of Walmart’s failure to implement sufficient internal accounting controls
related to anti-corruption, from in or about 2009 through in or about at least 2011, India Joint
Venture and India Retail Business were able to retain TPIs that made improper payments to
government officials in order to obtain store operating permits and licenses during that period.
These improper payments were then recorded in India Joint Venture’s books and records with

vague descriptions like “misc fees,” “miscellaneous,” “professional fees,” “incidental,” and
“government fee.”
Brazil
As. Despite certain observations from Brazil Subsidiary internal audit regarding the

Brazil Subsidiary anti-corruption related internal accounting controls weaknesses, Brazil
Subsidiary continued to retain certain high-risk TPIs. Starting in or around 2008 to in or around
April 2012, Brazil Subsidiary employed Brazil Construction Firm to build or renovate eight stores
and obtain all required construction permits. Although certain Brazil Subsidiary employees were
aware of the Brazil Construction Firm’s reputation for corruption, no due diligence was conducted
until in or around 2009, a year after Brazil Construction Firm was engaged. That due diligence
review cited allegations that Brazil Construction Firm had made improper payments to Brazilian
officials for non-Walmart projects and engaged in other illegal acts for non-Walmart projects.
Citing these allegations, the report recommended that Brazil Subsidiary not renew Brazil
Construction Firm’s contract. Notwithstanding the due diligence results, Walmart continued to use
Brazil Construction Firm until in or around April 2012.

49. One of the Brazil Subsidiary projects that Brazil Construction Firm worked on was
the construction of a new Walmart store that was originally scheduled to open on or around
November 19, 2009. Brazil Subsidiary tasked Brazil Construction Firm with obtaining the
construction permit and with handling all aspects of the store’s construction in May 2009. Later,
because Brazil Construction Firm was unable to timely obtain all permits, the grand opening was
delayed until mid-December. On or around December 7, 2009, Brazil Subsidiary’s real estate
committee met and discussed the store project, which was on the committee’s agenda due to its
missing operating license. At the meeting, a Brazil Subsidiary executive stated that the store

8
needed an “extraordinary process” to obtain the license. That same day, certain members of Brazil
Subsidiary management approved hiring another TPI—indirectly through Brazil Construction
Firm—to secure the license. Nine days later, the TPI obtained all governmental approvals for the
store. The TPI received approximately $127,000, an amount greater than Brazil Subsidiary’s other
permitting consultants, for the TPI’s efforts with these permits and certain operating permits
obtained after the store opened.

50. Certain Brazil Subsidiary employees expressed their concerns regarding the TPI to
Brazil Subsidiary management prior to the TPI’s engagement. Their concerns included the
possibility that the TPI was a government official and that the TPI did not have a formal
corporation to accept payment. A former employee of Brazil Construction Firm later stated that the
TPI told him at that time that when the TPI was working on obtaining the construction permit
under the direction of Brazil Construction Firm, 1) the TPI needed cash which the TPI had
requested from Brazil Construction Firm and had received from the former employee; and 2) the
TPI stated the money was for “people I have to pay,” which the former employee stated he
understood to mean would be used to provide improper payments to Brazilian government
officials. That former Brazil Construction Firm employee later stated that he made improper
payments himself, without the knowledge of Brazil Subsidiary, in connection with two other Brazil
Subsidiary stores.

51. In or around 2010, Brazil Subsidiary planned to open two other stores in the same
area. As with the earlier project, Brazil Subsidiary engaged the same TPI at year-end to assist with
stores that had been delayed due to licensing problems. The TPI again commanded an unusually
high fee for the TPI’s services—approximately $400,000—and was paid indirectly through Brazil
Subsidiary’s contractor. Despite earlier corruption concerns, no due diligence was conducted on
the TPI prior to the TPI’s work. The TPI’s ability to obtain licenses and permits quickly earned the
TPI the nickname “sorceress” or “genie” within Brazil Subsidiary.

Walmart’s Subsequent Anti-Corruption Compliance Programs

52. Although certain Walmart executives discussed revising the anti-corruption policy
and procedures shortly after their publication in March 2005, the Company did not announce the
launch of a “new and enhanced” anti-corruption program until on or around February 8, 2007. The
program would feature a revised policy, new procedures, and improved auditing and investigative
protocols—with an emphasis on training and TPI due diligence. Its rollout was scheduled to begin
two months later and conclude in or around 2008.

53. Walmart published the revised anti-corruption program as Company policy on or
around December 12, 2008. However, this policy was not sufficiently implemented at that time.
Shortly thereafter, Walmart appointed Walmart Compliance Employee as the Company’s first vice
president of international compliance and tasked him with updating the anti-corruption compliance
program.

54. In or around April 2009, Walmart informed its foreign subsidiaries that it would
soon promulgate anti-corruption standards that would be more flexible and easier and quicker to
implement. Instead of taking a centralized approach, each country would be required to devise its
own program based on the standards. On or around June 11, 2009, Walmart circulated to the

9
subsidiaries a one-page document entitled Global Anti-Corruption Standards that: 1) summarized
the FCPA; 2) acknowledged that in certain instances Walmart may provide gifts, meals, travel, and
entertainment to government officials; 3) noted that the standards applied to TPIs; and 4) provided
contact information for the Company’s global ethics office. The markets were instructed to design
and implement risk-based internal accounting controls, procedures, and training to ensure the
standards were met.

55. Walmart’s fiscal year 2010 FCPA reviews in Brazil, India, and Mexico identified
certain of its anti-corruption related internal accounting controls had weaknesses in each
subsidiary.

56. By around April 2011, Walmart recognized that its existing anti-corruption
compliance program was not sufficient and hired an international law firm and an international
consulting firm to conduct a worldwide anti-corruption compliance review for the purpose of
reviewing and testing Walmart’s anti-corruption compliance program in various foreign
subsidiaries around the world, including in Mexico, India, Brazil, and China.

Legal Standards and Violations

57. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-
and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision
of the Exchange Act or any regulation thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or would
be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would
contribute to such violation.

FCPA Violations

Books and Records Violations

 

58. As a result of the conduct described above, Walmart violated Section 13(b)(2)(A)
of the Exchange Act, which requires issuers that have a class of securities registered pursuant to
Section 12 of the Exchange Act and issuers with reporting obligations pursuant to Section 15(d) of
the Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets.

Internal Accounting Controls Violations

 

59. As a result of the conduct described above, Walmart violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of
the Exchange Act, which requires issuers that have a class of securities registered pursuant to
Section 12 of the Exchange Act and issuers with reporting obligations pursuant to Section 15(d) of
the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to
provide reasonable assurances that (1) transactions are executed in accordance with management’s
general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or
any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for assets; (111)
access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management’s general or specific
authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at
reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

10
Walmart’s Disclosures, Cooperation, and Remediation

60. In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered Walmart’s
disclosures, cooperation, and remedial efforts.

61. Walmart made an initial self-disclosure of the potential FCPA violations in Mexico
to the Commission’s staff in November 2011, after it retained outside counsel to conduct an
internal investigation under the direction of the Audit Committee of Walmart’s Board of Directors.
Subsequently, Walmart voluntarily expanded its investigation and disclosed its findings concerning
Brazil, China, and India to the Commission staff, although such disclosure was after the
Commission staff had already begun investigating the Company related to conduct in Mexico.

62. Walmart further cooperated by identifying issues and facts that would likely be of
interest to the Commission and the staff and providing regular updates to the staff; making regular
factual presentations to the staff and sharing information that would not have been otherwise
readily available to the staff; making foreign-based employees available for interviews in the
United States; producing translations of relevant documents; and obtaining cooperation of former
employees and third parties, including their consent to interviews.

63. Walmart’s remedial measures include: (1) hiring a Global Chief Ethics &
Compliance Officer , an International Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, and a dedicated Global
Anti-Corruption Officer, with separate reporting lines to the Audit Committee of Walmart’s Board
of Directors; (2) adding dedicated regional and market Chief Ethics & Compliance Officers,
foreign market anti-corruption directors, and anti-corruption compliance personnel at Walmart’s
home office and in Walmart’s foreign markets; (3) conducting, across each of Walmart’s markets,
enhanced monthly and quarterly anti-corruption monitoring; (4) enhancing on-site global anti-
corruption audits to test adherence to enhanced anti-corruption related internal accounting controls
and procedures; (5) enhancing anti-corruption related internal accounting controls on the selection
and use of third parties; (6) enhancing global anti-corruption training and awareness programs; (7)
implementing an automated global license management system for obtaining and renewing
licenses and permits and a global donation management system, which enhances controls relating
to charitable donations; and (8) terminating business relationships with third parties involved in the
conduct at issue.

Non-Prosecution Agreement

64. Walmart has entered into a non-prosecution agreement with the United States
Department of Justice that acknowledges responsibility for criminal conduct relating to certain
findings in the Order.

Non-Imposition of a Civil Penalty

65. Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty
based upon Walmart’s payment of a $137,955,249 monetary fine as part of Walmart’s resolution
with the United States Department of Justice.

11
IV.

Undertakings

66. Respondent undertakes to cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all
investigations, litigation, or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in
this Order. In connection with such cooperation, Respondent shall:

A. Produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all non-privileged
documents and other information requested by the Commission staff subject to any
restrictions under the law of any foreign jurisdiction;

B. Use its best efforts to cause its current or former officers, employees, and
directors to be interviewed by Commission staff at such times and places as the
Commission staff reasonably may direct; and

C. Use its best efforts to cause its current or former officers, employees, and
directors to appear and testify without service of a notice or subpoena in such
investigations, depositions, hearings, or trials as may be requested by the Commission staff.

67. Respondent undertakes to report to the Commission staff periodically, at no less
than one-year intervals, during a two-year period from the date of this Order on the status of
Respondent’s remediation and implementation of anti-corruption related compliance measures.
During this two-year period, Respondent shall (1) submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and
prepare one follow-up review and report, as described below:

A. Respondent shall submit to the Commission staff a written report within
twelve (12) months from the date of entry of this Order setting forth a complete
description of its FCPA and anti-corruption related remediation efforts to date, its
proposals reasonably designed to improve its policies and procedures for ensuring
compliance with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws, and the parameters
of the subsequent review (“Initial Report”). The Initial Report shall be transmitted to
Charles Cain, Chief, FCPA Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Respondent may extend the
time period for issuance of the Initial Report with prior written approval of the
Commission staff.

B. Respondent shall undertake one follow-up review, incorporating any
comments provided by the Commission staff on the Initial Report, to further monitor and
assess whether the policies and procedures of Respondent are reasonably designed to
detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws (the
“Follow-Up Report’).

C. The Follow-Up Report shall be completed no later than twelve (12)

months after the Initial Report. Respondent may extend the time period for issuance of
the Follow-Up Report with prior written approval of the Commission staff.

12
68. The Initial Report, Follow-up Report, supporting documentation, and any related
communications, presentations, and certifications submitted by Respondent may include
proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive business information. Public disclosure of
the reports could discourage cooperation, impede pending or potential government investigations
or undermine the objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the
reports and contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain nonpublic, except (1)
pursuant to court order, (2) as agreed by the parties in writing, (3) to the extent that the
Commission determines in its sole discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the
Commission’s discharge of its duties and responsibilities, or (4) is otherwise required by law.

69. Should Respondent, during the two-year period from the date of this Order,
discover credible evidence, not already reported to the Commission staff, that corrupt payments
or corrupt transfers of property or interests may have been offered, promised, paid, or authorized
by a Respondent entity or person, or any entity or person while working directly for Respondent,
or that related false books and records have been maintained, Respondent shall promptly report
such conduct to the Commission staff.

70. During this two-year period from the date of this Order, Respondent shall provide
its external auditors with its annual internal audit plan and reports of the results of internal audit
procedures and, subject to Respondent’s attorney-client privilege and attorney work product
protections, its assessment of its anti-corruption compliance policies and procedures.

71. During this two-year period from the date of this Order, Respondent shall provide
the Commission staff with any written reports or recommendations provided by Respondent’s
external auditors in response to Respondent’s annual internal audit plan, reports of the results of
internal audit procedures, and its assessment of its anti-corruption compliance policies and
procedures.

72. Respondent shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth
above. The certification shall identify the undertaking(s), provide written evidence of compliance
in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.
The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and
Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and supporting materials shall be
submitted to Charles Cain, Chief, FCPA Unit, Division of Enforcement, with a copy to the
Office of the Chief Counsel of the Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, no later than 60 days from the date of
the completion of the undertakings.

73. In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these
undertakings.

V.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:

A. Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. $§
78m(D2) A) and 7amib\M 2B).

13
B. Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$119,647,735 and prejudgment interest of $25,043,437 for a total payment of $144,691,172, to the
Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional
interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600. Payment must be made in one of the
following ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

 

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Walmart as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles Cain, Chief, FCPA Unit,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC
20549.

C. Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section IV,
paragraphs 67 through 72 above.

By the Commission.

Vanessa A. Countryman
Acting Secretary

14
