Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED*

Fl
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURPLER

Document11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 1 o0f9

LED
KS OFFICE

FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

 

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION,

Plaintiff,
v.

My Big Coin Pay, Inc., Randall Crater, and Mark
Gillespie,

Defendants,
Kimberly Renee Benge, Kimberly Renee Benge
d/b/a Greyshore Advertisement a/k/a Greyshore
Advertiset, Barbara Crater Meeks, Erica Crater,
Greyshore, LLC, Greyshore Technology, LLC,

Relief Defendants.

 

 

mg JAN 16 AN & 40

Case No. \Q-100- QW2

Filed Under Seal

(J2—
[PROPOSED] ORDER
GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
FOR AN EX PARTE TEMPORARY
RESTRAINING ORDER

Plaintiff Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has filed a Complaint

For Injunctive and Other Equitable Relief and For Civil Monetary Penalties Under the

Commodity Exchange Act and Commission Regulations (“Complaint”), and moved, pursuant to

Section 6c(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(a) (2012), and in

accordance with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (“Fed. R. Civ. P.”) 65, for an ex parte

temporary restraining order (1) freezing Defendants’ and Relief Defendants’ assets by

prohibiting them from withdrawing, transferring, removing, dissipating, or disposing of any

funds, assets, or other property; and (2) prohibiting Defendants and Relief Defendants from

destroying, altering or disposing of any books and records or other documents.

The Court finds that Commission has made the showing required by Fed. R. Civ. P.

65(b)(1), and in addition, that the Commission has shown that: (1) it is reasonably likely to
Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 2 of 9

establish that Defendants Randall Crater, Mark Gillespie, and My Big Coin Pay, Inc. by and’
through its agents, principals, and control person(s), Gillespie and Crater, (collectively,
“Defendants”) have engaged in, are engaging in, and are about to engage in the violations
alleged in the complaint, specifically a fraudulent and deceptive scheme in connection with a ,
virtual currency, a commodity in interstate commerce, in violation of Section 6(c)(1) of the Act,
7U.S.C. § 9(1) (2012), and Commission Regulation (“Regulation”) 180.1(a),
17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2017); (2) there is a reasonable likelihood that these violations are
ongoing; (3) there is a strong indication that unless restrained and enjoined by Order of this
Court, Defendants may dissipate and conceal assets which could be subject to an order of
disgorgement or an order to pay a civil monetary penalty in this action; and (4) entry of a
temporary restraining order freezing assets is in the public interest.

The Court has considered the pleadings, declarations, exhibits, and memorandum filed in
support of the Commission’s motion and finds that:

1. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and over the subject matter of this
action pursuant to Section 6c of the Act.

2s Venue lies properly within this District pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act.

3. There is good cause to believe that Randall Crater, Mark Gillespie, and My Big
Coin Pay, Inc. by and through its agents, principals, and control person(s), Gillespie and Crater,
(collectively, “Defendants”) have engaged in, are engaging in, and are about to engage in the
violations alleged in the complaint, specifically a fraudulent and deceptive scheme in connection
with a virtual currency, a commodity in interstate commerce, in violation of Section 6(c)(1) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2012), and Commission Regulation (“Regulation”) 180.1(a),

17 CFR. § 180.1(a) (2017).
Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 3 of 9

- 4, There is good cause to believe that since January 2014, Defendants have engaged
in a deceptive virtual currency scheme, fraudulently soliciting approximately $6 million from at
least twenty-eight individuals. Defendants fraudulently offered for sale to members of the public
My Big Coin (“MBC”), a virtual currency. To entice people to purchase MBC, Defendants
repeatedly made false and misleading claims and omissions about MBC’s value, usage, trade
status, and financial backing. Contrary to their claims, Defendants misappropriated almost all of
the approximately $6 million they obtained from customers (“MBC Customers”), and used the
money to fund a lavish lifestyle.

5. There is good cause to believe that Relief Defendants Kimberly Renee Benge;
Kimberly Renee Benge d/b/a Greyshore Advertisement a/k/a Greyshore Advertiset (““Greyshore
Advertisement”); Barbara Crater Meeks; Erica Crater; Greyshore, LLC (“Greyshore”); and
Greyshore Technology, LLC (““Greyshore Technology”) (collectively, “Relief Defendants’) have
received, are receiving, and are about to receive funds, assets or other property as a result of
Defendants’ violative acts and practices and has been unjustifiably enriched thereby. The Relief
Defendants do not have any legitimate interest or entitlement to these funds, assets or other
property received as a result of Defendants’ violative conduct.

6. There is good cause to believe that immediate and irreparable damage to the
Court’s ability to grant effective final relief for customers in the form of monetary redress will
occur from the withdrawal, transfer, removal, dissipation, or other disposition of funds, assets, or
other property or destruction, alteration, or disposition of books and records and other documents
(“tecords”) by Defendants and Relief Defendants unless Defendants and Relief Defendants are

immediately restrained and enjoined by Order of the Court.
Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 4 of 9

Ts Therefore, there is good cause for the Court to prohibit Defendants and Relief
Defendants from withdrawing, transferring, removing, dissipating, or disposing of any funds,
assets, or other property owned, controlled, managed, or held by Defendants and Relief
Defendants or in which they have any beneficial interest.

8. There is also good cause for entry of an order prohibiting Defendants and Relief
Defendants from destroying, altering, or disposing of records.

9. There is good cause to believe that, absent the entry of this ex parte temporary
restraining order, Defendants and Relief Defendants are likely to transfer or dissipate assets or
destroy or alter business records.

10. This is a proper case for granting a restraining order ex parte to preserve the status
quo, protect public customers from loss and damage, and enable the Commission to fulfill its
statutory duties, therefore the Court orders as follows:

DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:

11. The terms “funds, assets, or other property” encompass any legal or equitable
interest in, right to, or claim to, any real or personal property, whether individually or jointly,
directly or indirectly controlled, and wherever located, including but not limited to: chattels,
goods, instruments, equipment, fixtures, general intangibles, effects, leaseholds mail or other
deliveries, inventory, checks, notes, accounts (including, but not limited to, bank accounts and
accounts at other financial institutions), credits, receivables, lines of credit, contracts (including
spot, futures, options, or swaps contracts), insurance policies, and all funds, wherever located,

whether in the United States or outside the United States.
Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 5 of 9

12. The terms “documents” and “electronically stored information” are synonymous
in meaning and equal in scope to the usage of those terms in Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(a), and include,
but are not limited to, all writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, sound recordings,
images, and other data and data compilations — stored in any medium from which information
can be obtained or translated, if necessary, into reasonable usable form. The terms “documents”
and “electronically stored information” also refer to each and every such item in Defendants’ or
Relief Defendants’ actual or constructive possession, including but not limited to: (i) all such
items within Defendants’ and Relief Defendants’ custody or control of any of present agents,
employers, employees, partners, and (ii) all items which Defendants and Relief Defendants have
a legal or equitable right to obtain from another person. A draft or non-identical copy is a
separate item within the meaning of the terms. A document also includes the file and folder tabs
associated with each original and copy.

13. “Defendants” refers to Randall Crater, Mark Gillespie, and My Big Coin Pay, Inc.

14. “Relief Defendants” means and refers to Kimberly Renee Benge; Kimberly Renee
Benge d/b/a Greyshore Advertisement a/k/a Greyshore Advertiset; Barbara Crater Meeks; Erica
Crater; Greyshore, LLC; and Greyshore Technology, LLC.

RELIEF GRANTED
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED THAT:

I Order Prohibiting the Withdrawal, Transfer, Removal, Dissipation, and Disposal of
Assets

15. Defendants and Relief Defendants are immediately restrained and enjoined,
except as otherwise ordered by this Court, from directly or indirectly: withdrawing, transferring,

removing, dissipating, or otherwise disposing of any funds, assets or other property, wherever
Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 6 of 9

located, including Defendants’ and Relief Defendants’ funds, assets, or other property held
outside the United States;

16. Defendants and Relief Defendants are restrained and enjoined from directly or
indirectly opening or causing to be opened any safe deposit boxes titled in the name of, or
subject to, access by Defendants and Relief Defendants, except as otherwise ordered by the
Court.

17. The funds, assets or other property affected by this Order shall include existing
funds, assets or other property, or funds, assets, or other property acquired after the effective date
of this Order.

Il. Maintenance of All Records Relating to the Business Activities and Business and
Personal Finances

18. | The Defendants and Relief Defendants are restrained from directly or indirectly
destroying, altering, or disposing of, in any manner, any records that relate or refer to the
business activities and business and personal finances of any Defendant or Relief Defendant.

III. Notice to Financial Institutions and Others That Hold or Control Assets or Records

19. To ensure the effectiveness of the asset freeze and pending further Order of this
Court, any financial or brokerage institution, business entity, or person that receives actual notice
of this Order and holds, controls, or maintains custody of any account or asset owned by, held for
the benefit of, or otherwise under the control of any Defendant or Relief Defendant, shall not, in
active concert or participation with any Defendant or Relief Defendant:

a. Permit Defendants or Relief Defendants, or other persons to withdraw, transfer,

remove, dissipate, or otherwise dispose of Defendants’ or Relief Defendants’ funds,

assets, or other property, except as directed by further order of the Court; and
Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document 11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 7 of 9

. b. Permit Defendants or Relief Defendants or any other persons to access to any safe
deposit box that is: (a) owned, controlled, managed or held by Defendants or Relief
Defendants (as defined) either individually or jointly, or managed or held on behalf,
or for the benefit, of Defendants or Relief Defendants; or (b) otherwise subject to
access by Defendants or Relief Defendants.

20. Any financial or brokerage institution, business entity, or person that receives
notice of this Order by personal service or otherwise shall not, in active concert or participation
with any Defendant or Relief Defendant, directly or indirectly destroy, alter or dispose of, in any
manner, any records relating to the business activities and business and personal finances of any
Defendant or Relief Defendant.

21. Any financial or brokerage institution, business entity, or person that receives
actual notice of this Order and holds, controls, or maintains custody of any account or asset titled
in the name of, held for the benefit of, or otherwise under the control of any Defendants or Relief
Defendants, or has held, controlled, or maintained custody of any such account or asset of any
Defendants or Relief Defendants at any time since January 1, 2014, shall not, in active concert or
participation with Defendants or Relief Defendants, deny a request by the Commission to inspect
all records pertaining to every account or asset owned, controlled, managed or held by
Defendants or Relief Defendants, or managed or held on behalf, or for the benefit, of Defendants
or Relief Defendants, including, but not limited to, originals or copies of account applications,
account statements, signature cards, checks, drafts, deposit tickets, transfers to and from the
accounts, all other debit and credit instruments or slips, currency transaction reports, 1099 forms,

and safe deposit box logs. As an alternative to allowing inspection of records, a financial or
Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 8 of 9

brokerage institution, business entity or other person may provide copies of records requested by
the Commission.
IV. Persons Bound By this Order

22. This Order is binding on any person who receives actual notice of this Order by
personal service or otherwise and is acting in the capacity of an officer, agent, servant, employee,
or attorney of the Defendants or Relief Defendants, or is in active concert or participation with
the Defendants or Relief Defendants.
V. Bond Not Required of Plaintiff

23. As Plaintiff Commission has made a proper showing under Section 6c(b) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(b) (2012), it is not required to post any bond in connection with this Order.
VI. Service of Order

24, Copies of this Order may be served by any means, including via email or
facsimile transmission, upon any financial institution or other entity or person that may have
possession, custody, or control of any records or assets of any Defendant or Relief Defendant, or
that may be subject to any provision of this Order.
VII. Service on the Commission

25. The Defendants and Relief Defendants shall comply with all electronic filing
rules and requirements of the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts and shall serve
all pleadings, correspondence, notices required by this Order, and other materials on the
Commission by delivering a copy to Traci L. Rodriguez, Chief Trial Attorney, Division of
Enforcement, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20581, by electronic filing, email, personal delivery or courier service (such as Federal

Express or United Parcel Service) and not by regular mail due to potential delay resulting from
wk

Case 1:18-cv-10077-RWZ *SEALED* Document11 Filed 01/16/18 Page 9 of 9

heightened security and decontamination procedures applicable to the Commission’s regular
mail.
VIII. Further Proceedings

26. Plaintiff's Motion for a Preliminary Injunction is set for hearing on the Bitte
of , 2018, at [insert time] [Lhm., before the Honorable ; Courtroom

| 2 at the United States Courthouse for the District of Massachusetts at 1 Courthouse

Way, Boston, Massachusetts 02210. Should any party wish to file a memorandum of law or
other papers concerning the issuance of a preliminary injunction against the Defendants or Relief
Defendants such materials shall be filed, served and received by all parties at least two (2) days
before the hearing ordered above.
IX. Force and Effect

ZT This Order shall remain in full force and effect until [insert date no later than 14

days after entry of the order] unless extended further by order of this Court pursuant to Fed. R.

Civ. P. 65(b)(2), and this Court retains jurisdiction of this matter for all purposes.

IT SO ORDERED, at Boston, Massachusetts, on this \C’® day of pica 2018, at 2m

(Do

UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE
