 

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

Office of Proceedings
Proceedings Clerk

\ 5:00 pm, Jul 12, 2019]

In the Matter of:

 

 

Vision Financial Markets LLC,
CFTC Docket No. _ 19-13

 

Respondent.

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I. INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
Vision Financial Markets LLC (“Respondent”) violated Commission Regulation (“Regulation”)
166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2018). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine
whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any
order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity
Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and acknowledges
service of this Order.

 

' Respondent consents to the use of these findings of fact and conclusion of law in this Order in
this proceeding and in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the
Commission is a party or claimant, and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and be
given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Respondent does not consent, however, to
the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, other
than: a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a proceeding to enforce the terms of this
Order. Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or
conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any other proceeding.

l
IL. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:

A. SUMMARY

From at least January 1 to November 30, 2014 (the “Relevant Period”), Respondent, a
then-registered futures commission merchant (“FCM”), failed to diligently supervise the
handling by its employees and agents of commodity interest accounts carried by Respondent and
introduced by a Respondent guaranteed introducing broker (“GIB”), as well as the activities of
its employees and agents relating to its business as a then-registered FCM to ensure compliance
with the Act and Regulations, and to deter and detect wrongdoing, in violation of Regulation
166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2018).

In particular, Respondent had a supervisory system in place as evidenced by its
compliance manual; nevertheless, Respondent failed to adequately supervise its employees and
agents to ensure they: (1) executed bunched orders that properly segregated the GIB’s
proprietary trades from its customer trades; (2) executed bunched orders that properly segregated
trades from discretionary and non-discretionary GIB customer accounts; and (3) executed orders
for non-discretionary GIB customers only when the GIB had obtained specific customer
authorization for the transaction.

In accepting Respondent’s Offer of Settlement, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s
cooperation during the Division of Enforcement’s investigation of this matter.

B. RESPONDENT

Vision Financial Markets LLC is a securities broker dealer located in Stamford,
Connecticut. From at least May 1990 until April 2015, Respondent was a registered FCM and
commodity pool operator. The GIB discussed herein was a GIB of Respondent from at least
October 2000 to November 2014.

Cc. FACTS

1. Respondent Executed Bunched Orders That Contained Trades for the GIB’s
Proprietary and Customer Accounts and Bunched Orders That Contained Trades
for the GIB’s Discretionary and Non-Discretionary Customer Accounts

During the Relevant Period, the GIB regularly submitted to Respondent bunched orders
for post execution allocation that included both: (1) proprietary and customer trades; and (2)
discretionary and non-discretionary customer trades. Further, during the Relevant Period, after
submitting these bunched orders to Respondent, the GIB provided Respondent’s floor brokers
with post-allocation fill instructions informing the floor brokers which of the proprietary,
discretionary and non-discretionary accounts would receive the executed
transactions. Accordingly, because of these instructions, Respondent knew that the bunched
orders submitted by the GIB for execution combined trades for (a) the GIB’s proprietary
accounts with customer accounts; and (b) discretionary customer accounts with non-
discretionary customer accounts but continued to process the unlawful bunched orders.

2. Respondent Executed Bunched Orders for the GIB’s Non-Discretionary Customers
When Respondent Was Aware or Should Have Been Aware That the GIB Had Not
Obtained Specific Customer Authorization for the Transaction

During the Relevant Period, Respondent executed bunched orders for the GIB’s non-
discretionary customers when the GIB had not obtained specific authorization from the customer
for the transaction. Specifically, the GIB exercised trading discretion over non-discretionary
customer accounts. However, the GIB did not have powers of attorney from those customers
and in certain instances had not obtained the requisite specific authorizations from those
customers as to, among other things, the precise commodity interest that it was selling or the
exact amount of the commodity interest that was being sold.

During the Relevant Period, Respondent was aware or should have been aware that
certain trades it executed on behalf of the GIB’s non-discretionary customers, including as part
of bunched orders, were not specifically authorized by the customers. For example, in July
2014, Respondent conducted an audit of the GIB. During that audit, Respondent noted that on
multiple occasions that the GIB did not appear to be properly timestamping the trade tickets for
certain bunched orders. In particular, the initial timestamps on certain trade tickets, which
evidenced when the GIB purportedly contacted a non-discretionary customer to obtain their
specific authorization for the trade, appeared to match the exact same timestamp that the GIB
supposedly submitted these trades to Respondent for execution. This raised a red flag for
Respondent that the GIB was not obtaining specific customer authorizations. Notwithstanding
this red flag, Respondent continued to accept orders from the GIB for which the GIB failed to
obtain the requisite customer authorizations.

Similarly, in October 2014, the GIB informed Respondent that the GIB did not obtain
from its customers specific authorization when it canceled and replaced orders on behalf of those
customers. This again raised a red flag for Respondent that the GIB was not obtaining specific
customer authorizations. Subsequently in 2014, the GIB accounts relevant here were transferred
to a different FCM.

3. Respondent’s Compliance Manual

Respondent’s compliance manual was, in relevant part, consistent with the requirements
of certain Regulations pertinent to the issues in this case, specifically, Regulations 1.35(b)(5),
155.3 155.4(a)(1), 166.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.35 (b)(5), 155.3 155.4(a)(1), and 166.2 (2018).

During the Relevant Period, Respondent’s compliance manual thus provided that orders
for proprietary accounts, that is, accounts in which a firm had an ownership interest, could not be
bunched with orders for customer accounts. The compliance manual also provided that orders
for discretionary customer accounts, that is, accounts that had provided powers-of-attorney,
could not be bunched with orders for non-discretionary customer accounts. Respondent’s
compliance manual further required that a non-discretionary customer be informed of, and agree
to all parameters of a trade (i.e., quantity, commodity, delivery month, option type, and strike
price(s)) prior to executing the transaction on the customer’s behalf).

I. LEGAL DISCUSSION

Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2018), requires:

Each Commission registrant, except an associated person who has
no supervisory duties, must diligently supervise the handling by its
partners, officers, employees and agents (or other persons
occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) of all
commodity interest accounts carried, operated, advised or
introduced by the registrant and all other activities of its partners,
officers, employees, and agents (or other persons occupying a
similar status or performing a similar function) relating to its
business as a registrant.

Under Regulation 166.3, a registrant has a “duty to develop procedures for the ‘detection
and deterrence of possible wrongdoing by its agents.’” Samson Refining Co. v. Drexel Burnham
Lambert, Inc., CFTC No. 82-R448, 1990 WL 282783, at *11 (Feb. 16, 1990) (quoting Lobb v.
J.T. McKerr & Co., CFTC No. 85-R185, 1989 WL 242384, at *11 (Dec. 14, 1989)).

A violation of Regulation 166.3 is established by showing either that: (1) the registrant’s
supervisory system was generally inadequate, or (2) the registrant failed to perform its
supervisory duties diligently. In re FCStone, LLC, CFTC No. 15-21, 2015 WL 2066891, at *3
(May 1, 2015) (consent order) (citing Jn re Murlas Commodities, CFTC No. 85-29, 1995 WL
523563 (Sept. 1, 1995)). So, even if proper procedures are in place, a supervisory violation may
occur if a registrant fails to implement those procedures, or fails to ensure that its agents follow
those procedures. See, e.g., GNP Commodities, 1992 WL 201158, at *17 (providing that, even if
an adequate supervisory system is in place, Regulation 166.3 can still be violated if the
supervisory system is not diligently administered and stating that “a proper determination of a
FCM’s supervisory diligence must remain sensitive to the particular facts and circumstances that
influenced the design and execution of the system at issue”), aff'd sub nom. Monieson v. CFTC,
996 F.2d 852 (7th Cir. 1993).

Further, a violation of Regulation 166.3 is an independent violation for which no
underlying violation is necessary. FCStone, 2015 WL 2066891, at *3. Instead, evidence of
underlying violations that “should be detected by a diligent system of supervision, either because
of the nature of the violations or because the violations have occurred repeatedly” is probative of
a failure to supervise. CFTC v. Sidoti, 178 F.3d 1132, 1137 (1 1" Cir. 1999) (defendant was
liable for failure to supervise because he “knew of specific instances of misconduct yet failed to
take reasonable steps to correct the problems”).

During the Relevant Period, Respondent was registered with the Commission and had an
obligation to diligently supervise its employees and agents in their handling of customer orders.
Among other things, where bunched orders are being used and thus orders are being allocated to

4
specific customer accounts post-execution, Regulation 1.35(b)(5) places an affirmative
obligation on FCMs to monitor for unusual or suspicious activity and to make reasonable inquiry
if an FCM has actual or constructive knowledge of red flags indicating a likelihood of such
activity. See Account Identification for Eligible Bunched Orders, 68 Fed. Reg. 34,790, 34,792
(June 11, 2003); see also NFA Notice 9029. Consistent with these obligations, during the
Relevant Period Respondent had a compliance manual that required Respondent employees,
among other things, to take appropriate measures to ensure that: trades for proprietary accounts
and customer accounts were not contained in the same bunched order; trades for discretionary
accounts and non-discretionary accounts were not contained in the same bunched order; and the
requisite customer authorization was obtained for trades for non-discretionary accounts.

Thus, Respondent here had an obligation to monitor the post-execution allocation process
for unusual or suspicious activity—particularly after Respondent had knowledge of red flags
including that the GIB was not obtaining specific customer authorizations for certain of the
bunched order transactions. Notwithstanding these obligations, however, with respect to orders
placed by its GIB, Respondent employees and agents routinely: (1) executed bunched orders that
contained trades for the GIB’s proprietary and GIB’s customer accounts; (2) executed bunched
orders that contained trades for the GIB’s discretionary and non-discretionary customer
accounts; and (3) executed orders for the GIB’s non-discretionary customers, including bunched
orders, when the GIB had failed to obtain specific customer authorization for the transaction. As
noted, this occurred even after Respondent had identified that the GIB’s orders were not
compliant with the Act and Regulations. In failing to supervise its employees and agents to
ensure they carried out these obligations in their handling of the commodity interest accounts,
Respondent violated Regulation 166.3.

IV. FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,
Respondent violated Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2018).

V. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges service of this Order;
B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this

Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;

3. All post-hearing procedures;
Judicial review by any court;

Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504 (2012), and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2018), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. I], §§ 201-53, 110
Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
and

Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief, including this Order.

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

I.

Makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Regulation 166.3, 17
C.F.R. § 166.3 (2018);

Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3;

Orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of two-hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000), plus post-judgment interest;

Orders Respondent to comply with the conditions and undertakings consented to in
the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3
(2018);

A,

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of two-hundred thousand

dollars ($200,000) (CMP Obligation), plus post-judgment interest. Post-judgment

interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning ten calendar days after the date of
the entry of the Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing
on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is
to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made
payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Marie
Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent shall comply with the following conditions and undertakings set forth in the
Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any agents or employees
under its authority or control shall take any action or make any public statement
denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order or
creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondent’s:
(i) testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions in other proceedings
to which the Commission is not a party. Respondent shall comply with this
agreement, and shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of his agents
and/or employees under his authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement.

2. Cooperation with the Commission: Respondent shall cooperate fully and
expeditiously with the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of
Enforcement, in this action, and in any current or future Commission
investigation or action related thereto. Respondent shall also cooperate in any
investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to, or arising from,
this action.
3, Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by
the Commission or the Monitor of any partial payment of Respondent’s CMP
Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of his obligation to make further
payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to
compel payment of any remaining balance.

4, Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full his
CMP Obligation as set forth in this Consent Order, Respondent shall provide
written notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to his telephone
number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.
By the Commission.

Cub | 2£A
Christopher J Uirkpatrick

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: July 12, 2019
