Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 1 of 68

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
CASE NO. 18-CR-00118

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Vv. 15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(4),
78m(b)(5), 78ff(a); 18 U.S.C. § 2
PANASONIC AVIONICS
CORPORATION,
Defendant.

/

 

DEFERRED PROSECUTION AGREEMENT

Defendant Panasonic Avionics Corporation (the “Company”), pursuant to authority
granted by the Company’s Board of Directors, and the United States Department of Justice,
Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section’), enter into this Deferred Prosecution
Agreement (the “Agreement’).

Criminal Information and Acceptance of Responsibility

1. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Fraud Section will file the
attached one-count criminal Information in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia charging the Company with the knowing and willful falsification of the books,
records, and accounts of its parent company Panasonic Corporation (“Panasonic’’), a U.S. issuer
until on or about April 22, 2013, in violation of Title 15, United States Code, Sections
78m(b)(2)(A), (b)(4), (b)(5), and 78ff(a), and Title 18, United States Code Section 2. In so
doing, the Company: (a) knowingly waives its right to indictment on this charge, as well as all

rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution, Title
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 2 of 68

18, United States Code, Section 3161, and Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b); and (b)
knowingly waives any objection with respect to venue to any charges by the United States
arising out of the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached hereto as Attachment A
and consents to the filing of the Information, as provided under the terms of this Agreement, in
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The Fraud Section agrees to defer
prosecution of the Company pursuant to the terms and conditions described below.

2. The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under
United States law for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as charged in the
Information, and as set forth in the Statement of Facts, and that the allegations described in the
Information and the facts described in the Statement of Facts are true and accurate. Should the
Fraud Section pursue the prosecution that is deferred by this Agreement, the Company stipulates
to the admissibility of the Statement of Facts in any proceeding by the Fraud Section, including
any trial, guilty plea, or sentencing proceeding, and will not contradict anything in the Statement
of Facts at any such proceeding.

Term of the Agreement

3. This Agreement is effective for a period beginning on the date on which the
Information is filed and ending three years from the later of the date on which the Information is
filed or the date on which the independent compliance monitor (the “Monitor’’) is retained by the
Company, as described in Paragraphs 11 through 13 below (the “Term’”). The Company agrees,
however, that, in the event the Fraud Section determines, in its sole discretion, that the Company
has knowingly violated any provision of this Agreement or has failed to completely perform or

fulfill each of the Company’s obligations under this Agreement, an extension or extensions of
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 3 of 68

the Term may be imposed by the Fraud Section, in its sole discretion, for up to a total additional
time period of one year, without prejudice to the Fraud Section’s right to proceed as provided in
Paragraphs 17 through 20 below. Any extension of the Agreement extends all terms of this
Agreement, including the terms of the monitorship in Attachment D, for an equivalent period.
Conversely, in the event the Fraud Section finds, in its sole discretion, that there exists a change
in circumstances sufficient to eliminate the need for the monitorship in Attachment D, and that
the other provisions of this Agreement have been satisfied, the Agreement may be terminated
early. If the Court rejects the Agreement, all the provisions of the Agreement shall be deemed
null and void, and the Term shall be deemed to have not begun.
Relevant Considerations

4. The Fraud Section enters into this Agreement based on the individual facts and

circumstances presented by this case and the Company, including:
a. The Company did not receive voluntary disclosure credit because the
Company’s disclosures occurred only after the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC’’)
requested documents from Panasonic related to possible violations of anti-corruption laws and
several years after the Company and Panasonic first became aware of the allegations of bribery
through a whistleblower complaint and civil lawsuit, which the Company took steps to
investigate internally but chose not to voluntarily report to the relevant authorities;
b. The Company received credit for its cooperation with the Fraud Section’s

investigation, including conducting a thorough internal investigation; making factual
presentations to the Fraud Section; providing facts learned during witness interviews conducted

by the Company; voluntarily making U.S. and foreign employees available for interviews in the
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 4 of 68

United States with the Fraud Section and the SEC; in one instance, proactively alerting the Fraud
Section to material information relevant to the investigation; collecting, analyzing, and
organizing voluminous evidence from multiple jurisdictions; and disclosing to the Fraud Section
conduct in the Middle East of which the Fraud Section was previously unaware.

C. By the conclusion of the investigation, the Company provided to the Fraud
Section all relevant facts known to it, including information about the individuals involved in the
conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached hereto as Attachment A (“Statement of
Facts’) and conduct disclosed to the Fraud Section prior to the Agreement;

d. The Company engaged in significant, although in some respects untimely,
remedial measures, including causing several senior executives who were either involved in or
aware of the misconduct to be separated from the Company;

e. The Company has enhanced and has committed to continuing to enhance
its compliance program and internal controls, including ensuring that its compliance program
satisfies the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C to this Agreement (Corporate
Compliance Program), but to date has not fully implemented or tested its enhanced compliance
program, and thus the imposition of an independent compliance monitor for a term of two years,
as described more fully below and in Attachment D, is necessary to prevent the reoccurrence of
misconduct;

f. The nature and seriousness of the offense conduct, including knowing and
willful falsification of books and records that lasted for at least six years and spanned multiple
countries, and participation in the scheme by high-level executives of the Company;

g. The Company has no prior criminal history;
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 5 of 68

h. The Company has agreed to continue to cooperate with the Fraud Section
in any ongoing investigation of the conduct of the Company, its parent company or its affiliates,
or any of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, business partners,
distributors, and consultants relating to violations of the FCPA;

1. Panasonic has agreed to disgorge $126,900,000 in profits and
$16,299,018.93 in prejudgment interest to the SEC in connection with overlapping conduct;

j. Accordingly, after considering (a) through (i) above, the Fraud Section has
determined that a Deferred Prosecution Agreement, an aggregate discount of 20% off of the
bottom of the otherwise-applicable U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range, and the imposition of
a two-year independent compliance monitor is sufficient but not greater than necessary to
achieve the purposes described in 18 U.S.C. § 3553.

Future Cooperation and Disclosure Requirements

5. The Company shall cooperate fully with the Fraud Section in any and all matters
relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of Facts and other conduct
related to possible corrupt payments under investigation by the Fraud Section, subject to
applicable law and regulations, including relevant data privacy and national security laws and
regulations, until the later of the date upon which all investigations and prosecutions arising out
of such conduct are concluded, or the end of the term specified in Paragraph 3. At the request of
the Fraud Section, the Company shall also cooperate fully with other domestic or foreign law
enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as Multilateral Development Banks
(“MDBs’’), in any investigation of the Company, its parent company or its affiliates, or any of its

present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, business partners, distributors, and
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 6 of 68

consultants, or any other party, in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this
Agreement and the Statement of Facts and other conduct related to possible corrupt payments
under investigation by the Fraud Section. The Company agrees that its cooperation pursuant to
this paragraph shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

a. The Company shall truthfully disclose all factual information not
protected by a valid claim of attorney-client privilege or attorney work-product doctrine with
respect to its activities, those of its parent company and affiliates, and those of its present and
former directors, officers, employees, agents, business partners, distributors, and consultants,
including any evidence or allegations and internal or external investigations, about which the
Company has any knowledge or about which the Fraud Section may inquire. This obligation of
truthful disclosure includes, but is not limited to, the obligation of the Company to provide to the
Fraud Section, upon request, any document, record, or other tangible evidence about which the
Fraud Section may inquire of the Company.

b. Upon request of the Fraud Section, the Company shall designate
knowledgeable employees, agents, or attorneys to provide to the Fraud Section the information
and materials described in Paragraph 5(a) above on behalf of the Company. It is further
understood that the Company must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate
information.

C. The Company shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews or
testimony, as requested by the Fraud Section, present or former officers, directors, employees,
agents, business partners, distributors, and consultants of the Company. This obligation

includes, but is not limited to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, as
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 7 of 68

well as interviews with domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities.
Cooperation under this paragraph shall include identification of witnesses who, to the knowledge
of the Company, may have material information regarding the matters under investigation.

d. With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records or other
tangible evidence provided to the Fraud Section pursuant to this Agreement, the Company
consents to any and all disclosures, subject to applicable law and regulations, to other
governmental authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign government,
as well as MDBs, of such materials as the Fraud Section, in its sole discretion, shall deem
appropriate.

6. In addition to the obligations in Paragraph 5, during the Term, should the
Company learn of any evidence or allegation of conduct that may constitute a violation of the
anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA had the conduct occurred within the jurisdiction of the
United States, the Company shall promptly report such evidence or allegation to the Fraud
Section.

Payment of Monetary Penalty

7. The Fraud Section and the Company agree that application of the United States
Sentencing Guidelines (“USSG” or “Sentencing Guidelines’) to determine the applicable fine
range yields the following analysis:

a. The 2016 USSG are applicable to this matter.

b. Offense Level. Based upon USSG § 2B1.1, the total offense level is 33,
calculated as follows:

(a)(1) Base Offense Level 7

(b)(1) Pecuniary gain of more than $65,000,000 +24
7
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 8 of 68

(b)(10) Conduct outside the U.S. +2
TOTAL 33

C. Base Fine. Based upon USSG § 8C2.4(a)(2), the base fine is
$122,681,975 (as the pecuniary gain exceeds the fine in the Offense Level
Fine Table from the 2014 USSG, pursuant to § 8C2.4(e)(1), namely
$22,000,000)

d. Culpability Score. Based upon USSG § 8C2.5, the culpability score is 7,
calculated as follows:

(a) Base Culpability Score 5

(b)(2) the organization had 1,000 or more employees and
an individual within high-level personnel of the
organization participated in, condoned, or was
willfully ignorant of the offense +4

(g)(2) The organization fully cooperated in the
investigation and clearly demonstrated recognition
and affirmative acceptance of responsibility for its
criminal conduct -2

TOTAL 7

Calculation of Fine Range:

 

Base Fine $122,681,975
Multipliers 1.4 (min) / 2.8 (max)
Fine Range $171,754,765 / $343,509,530

The Company agrees to pay a monetary penalty in the amount of $137,403,812 (which includes
the 20% discount described above) to the United States Treasury no later than ten business days
after the Agreement is fully executed. The Company and the Fraud Section agree that this
penalty is appropriate given the facts and circumstances of this case, including the Relevant

Considerations described in Paragraph 4. The $137,403,812 penalty is final and shall not be
8
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 9 of 68

refunded. Furthermore, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed an agreement by the Fraud
Section that $137,403,812 is the maximum penalty that may be imposed in any future
prosecution, and the Fraud Section is not precluded from arguing in any future prosecution that
the Court should impose a higher fine, although the Fraud Section agrees that under those
circumstances, it will recommend to the Court that any amount paid under this Agreement
should be offset against any fine the Court imposes as part of a future judgment. The Company
acknowledges that no tax deduction may be sought in connection with the payment of any part of
this $137,403,812 penalty. The Company shall not seek or accept directly or indirectly
reimbursement or indemnification from any source with regard to the penalty or disgorgement
amounts that the Company pays pursuant to this Agreement or any other agreement entered into
with an enforcement authority or regulator concerning the facts set forth in the Statement of
Facts.
Conditional Release from Liability

8. Subject to Paragraphs 17 through 20, the Fraud Section agrees, except as provided
in this Agreement, that it will not bring any criminal or civil case against the Company or any of
its direct or indirect subsidiaries or joint ventures or any predecessor, successor, or assignee
thereof, relating to any of the conduct described in the Statement of Facts or the criminal
Information filed pursuant to this Agreement. The Fraud Section, however, may use any
information related to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts against the Company: (a)
in a prosecution for perjury or obstruction of justice; (b) in a prosecution for making a false

statement; (c) in a prosecution or other proceeding relating to any crime of violence; or (d) in a
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 10 of 68

prosecution or other proceeding relating to a violation of any provision of Title 26 of the United
States Code.
a. This Agreement does not provide any protection against prosecution for
any future conduct by the Company.
b. In addition, this Agreement does not provide any protection against
prosecution of any individuals, regardless of their affiliation with the Company.
Corporate Compliance Program

9. The Company represents that it has implemented and will continue to implement
a compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations of the FCPA and
other applicable anti-corruption laws throughout its operations, including those of its affiliates,
agents, and joint ventures, and those of its contractors and subcontractors whose responsibilities
include interacting with foreign officials or other activities carrying a high risk of corruption,
including, but not limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C.

10. In order to address any deficiencies in its internal accounting controls, policies,
and procedures, the Company represents that it has undertaken, and will continue to undertake in
the future, in a manner consistent with all of its obligations under this Agreement, a review of its
existing internal accounting controls, policies, and procedures regarding compliance with the
FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. Where necessary and appropriate, the
Company agrees to modify its compliance program, including internal controls, compliance
policies, and procedures in order to ensure that it maintains: (a) an effective system of internal
accounting controls designed to ensure the making and keeping of fair and accurate books,

records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-corruption compliance program that incorporates

10
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 11 of 68

relevant internal accounting controls, as well as policies and procedures designed to effectively
detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. The
compliance program, including the internal accounting controls system will include, but not be
limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C. In assessing the Company’s
compliance program, the Fraud Section, in its sole discretion, may consider the Monitor’s
certification decision.
Independent Compliance Monitor

11. Promptly after the Fraud Section’s selection pursuant to Paragraph 12 below, the
Company agrees to retain a Monitor for the term specified in Paragraph 13. The Monitor’s
duties and authority, and the obligations of the Company with respect to the Monitor and the
Fraud Section, are set forth in Attachment D, which is incorporated by reference into this
Agreement. No later than the date of execution of this Agreement, the Company will propose to
the Fraud Section a pool of three qualified candidates to serve as the Monitor. The Monitor
candidates or their team members shall have, at a minimum, the following qualifications:

a. demonstrated expertise with respect to the FCPA and other applicable
anti-corruption laws, including experience counseling on FCPA issues;

b. experience designing and/or reviewing corporate compliance policies,
procedures and internal controls, including FCPA and anti-corruption policies, procedures, and
internal controls;

C. the ability to access and deploy resources as necessary to discharge the

Monitor’s duties as described in the Agreement; and

11
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 12 of 68

d. sufficient independence from the Company to ensure effective and
impartial performance of the Monitor’s duties as described in the Agreement.

12. The Fraud Section retains the right, in its sole discretion, to choose the Monitor
from among the candidates proposed by the Company, though the Company may express its
preference(s) among the candidates. Monitor selections shall be made in keeping with the
Department’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. If the Fraud Section determines, in its sole
discretion, that any of the candidates are not, in fact, qualified to serve as the Monitor, or if the
Fraud Section, in its sole discretion, is not satisfied with the candidates proposed, the Fraud
Section reserves the right to request that the Company nominate additional candidates. In the
event the Fraud Section rejects any proposed Monitors, the Company shall propose additional
candidates within twenty business days after receiving notice of the rejection so that three
qualified candidates are proposed. This process shall continue until a Monitor acceptable to both
parties is chosen. The Fraud Section and the Company will use their best efforts to complete the
selection process within sixty calendar days of the execution of this Agreement. If the Monitor
resigns or is otherwise unable to fulfill his or her obligations as set out herein and in Attachment
D, the Company shall within twenty business days recommend a pool of three qualified Monitor
candidates from which the Fraud Section will choose a replacement.

13. The Monitor’s term shall be two years from the date on which the Monitor is
retained by the Company, subject to extension or early termination as described in Paragraph 3.
The Monitor’s powers, duties, and responsibilities, as well as additional circumstances that may
support an extension of the Monitor’s term, are set forth in Attachment D. The Company agrees

that it will not employ or be affiliated with the Monitor or the Monitor’s firm for a period of not

12
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 13 of 68

less than two years from the date on which the Monitor’s term expires. Nor will the Company
discuss with the Monitor or the Monitor’s firm the possibility of further employment or
affiliation during the Monitor’s term.

14. At the end of the monitorship, provided all requirements set forth in Paragraph 8
of Attachment D are met, the Company will report on its compliance to the Fraud Section
periodically, at no less than six-month intervals, for the remainder of this Agreement, regarding
remediation and implementation of the enhanced compliance measures set forth by the Monitor
as described in Paragraph 8 of Attachment D. The Company shall designate a senior company
officer as the person responsible for overseeing the Company’s corporate compliance reporting
obligations. During this period, the Company shall conduct and prepare at least two follow-up
reviews and reports, as described below:

a. The Company shall undertake follow-up reviews at six-month intervals,
each incorporating the Fraud Section’s views and comments on the Company’s prior reviews and
reports, to determine whether the policies and procedures of the Company are reasonably
designed to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws.
Reports shall be transmitted: Chief of the FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S.
Department of Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005.

b. The first follow-up review and report shall be completed by no later than
one hundred eighty calendar days after the approval by the Fraud Section of the enhanced
compliance measures described in Paragraph 8 of Attachment D. Subsequent follow-up reviews
and reports shall be completed by no later than one hundred eighty calendar days after the

completion of the preceding follow-up review. The final follow-up review and report shall be

13
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 14 of 68

completed and delivered to the Fraud Section no later than thirty days before the end of the
Term.
C. The Company may extend the time period for submission of any of the
follow-up reports with prior written approval of the Fraud Section.
Deferred Prosecution

15. In consideration of the undertakings agreed to by the Company herein, the Fraud
Section agrees that any prosecution of the Company for the conduct set forth in the Statement of
Facts be and hereby is deferred for the Term. To the extent there is conduct disclosed by the
Company that is not set forth in the Statement of Facts, such conduct will not be exempt from
further prosecution and is not within the scope of or relevant to this Agreement.

16. The Fraud Section further agrees that if the Company fully complies with all of
its obligations under this Agreement, the Fraud Section will not continue the criminal
prosecution against the Company described in Paragraph 1 and, at the conclusion of the Term,
this Agreement shall expire. Within six months after the Agreement’s expiration, the Fraud
Section shall seek dismissal with prejudice of the criminal Information filed against the
Company described in Paragraph 1, and agrees not to file charges in the future against the
Company based on the conduct described in this Agreement and the Statement of Facts.

Breach of the Agreement

17. If, during the Term, the Company (a) commits any felony under U.S. federal law;
(b) provides in connection with this Agreement deliberately false, incomplete, or misleading
information, including in connection with its disclosure of information about individual

culpability; (c) fails to cooperate as set forth in Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Agreement; (d) fails to

14
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 15 of 68

implement a compliance program as set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Agreement and
Attachment C; (e) commits any acts that, had they occurred within the jurisdictional reach of the
FPCA, would be a violation of the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA; or (f) otherwise fails to
completely perform or fulfill each of the Company’s obligations under the Agreement, regardless
of whether the Fraud Section becomes aware of such a breach after the Term is complete, the
Company, or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries or joint ventures or any predecessor,
successor, or assignee thereof, shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal
violation of which the Fraud Section has knowledge, including, but not limited to, the charges in
the Information described in Paragraph 1, which may be pursued by the Fraud Section in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia or any other appropriate venue. Determination
of whether the Company has breached the Agreement and whether to pursue prosecution of the
Company, or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries or joint ventures or any predecessor,
successor, or assignee thereof, shall be in the Fraud Section’s sole discretion. Any such
prosecution may be premised on information provided by the Company or its personnel. Any
such prosecution relating to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts or relating to
conduct known to the Fraud Section prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is
not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this
Agreement may be commenced against the Company, or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries
or joint ventures or any predecessor, successor, or assignee thereof, notwithstanding the
expiration of the statute of limitations, between the signing of this Agreement and the expiration
of the Term plus one year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the Company agrees that the statute

of limitations with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-barred on the date of the

15
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 16 of 68

signing of this Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. In addition, the Company
agrees that the statute of limitations as to any violation of federal law that occurs during the
Term will be tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs until the earlier of the date
upon which the Fraud Section is made aware of the violation or the duration of the Term plus
five years, and that this period shall be excluded from any calculation of time for purposes of the
application of the statute of limitations.

18. In the event the Fraud Section determines that the Company has breached this
Agreement, the Fraud Section agrees to provide the Company with written notice of such breach
prior to instituting any prosecution resulting from such breach. Within thirty days of receipt of
such notice, the Company shall have the opportunity to respond to the Fraud Section in writing
to explain the nature and circumstances of such breach, as well as the actions the Company has
taken to address and remediate the situation, which explanation the Fraud Section shall consider
in determining whether to pursue prosecution of the Company or any of its direct or indirect
subsidiaries or joint ventures or any predecessor, successor, or assignee thereof.

19. In the event that the Fraud Section determines that the Company has breached
this Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Company to the Fraud Section or
to the Court, including the Statement of Facts, and any testimony given by the Company before a
grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative hearings, whether prior or subsequent to
this Agreement, and any leads derived from such statements or testimony, shall be admissible in
evidence in any and all criminal proceedings brought by the Fraud Section against the Company,
or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries or joint ventures or any predecessor, successor, or

assignee thereof; and (b) the Company shall not assert any claim under the United States

16
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 17 of 68

Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the Federal
Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that any such statements or testimony made by or on
behalf of the Company prior or subsequent to this Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom,
should be suppressed or are otherwise inadmissible. The decision whether conduct or statements
of any current director, officer or employee, or any person acting on behalf of, or at the direction
of, the Company, will be imputed to the Company for the purpose of determining whether the
Company has violated any provision of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the
Fraud Section.

20. The Company acknowledges that the Fraud Section has made no representations,
assurances, or promises concerning what sentence may be imposed by the Court if the Company
breaches this Agreement and this matter proceeds to judgment. The Company further
acknowledges that any such sentence is solely within the discretion of the Court and that nothing
in this Agreement binds or restricts the Court in the exercise of such discretion.

21. On the date that the period of deferred prosecution specified in this Agreement
expires, the Company, by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, will certify to the Fraud Section that the Company has met its
disclosure obligations pursuant to Paragraph 6 of this Agreement. Each certification will be
deemed a material statement and representation by the Company to the executive branch of the
United States for purposes of 18 U.S.C. § 1001, and it will be deemed to have been made in the

judicial district in which this Agreement is filed.

17
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 18 of 68

Sale, Merger, or Other Change in Corporate Form of Company

22. Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular
transaction, the Company agrees that in the event that, during the Term, it undertakes any change
in corporate form, including if it sells, merges, or transfers business operations that are material
to the Company’s consolidated operations, or to the operations of any subsidiaries or affiliates
involved in the conduct described in the Statement of Facts, as they exist as of the date of this
Agreement, whether such sale is structured as a sale, asset sale, merger, transfer, or other change
in corporate form, it shall include in any contract for sale, merger, transfer, or other change in
corporate form a provision binding the purchaser, or any successor in interest thereto, to the
obligations described in this Agreement. The purchaser or successor in interest must also agree
in writing that the Fraud Section’s ability to breach under this Agreement is applicable in full
force to that entity. The Company agrees that the failure to include these provisions in the
transaction will make any such transaction null and void. The Company shall provide notice to
the Fraud Section at least thirty days prior to undertaking any such sale, merger, transfer, or other
change in corporate form. If the Fraud Section notifies the Company prior to such transaction
(or series of transactions) that it has determined that the transaction(s) has the effect of
circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as determined in the
sole discretion of the Fraud Section, the Company agrees that such transaction(s) will not be
consummated. In addition, if at any time during the Term the Fraud Section determines in its
sole discretion that the Company has engaged in a transaction(s) that has the effect of
circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, it may deem it a

breach of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraphs 17 through 20 of this Agreement. Nothing

18
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 19 of 68

herein shall restrict the Company from indemnifying (or otherwise holding harmless) the
purchaser or successor in interest for penalties or other costs arising from any conduct that may
have occurred prior to the date of the transaction, so long as such indemnification does not have
the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as
determined by the Fraud Section.
Public Statements by Company

23. The Company expressly agrees that it shall not, through present or future
attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents or any other person authorized to speak for the
Company make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise, contradicting the acceptance of
responsibility by the Company set forth above or the facts described in the Statement of Facts.
Any such contradictory statement shall, subject to cure rights of the Company described below,
constitute a breach of this Agreement, and the Company thereafter shall be subject to prosecution
as set forth in Paragraphs 17 through 20 of this Agreement. The decision whether any public
statement by any such person contradicting a fact contained in the Statement of Facts will be
imputed to the Company for the purpose of determining whether it has breached this Agreement
shall be at the sole discretion of the Fraud Section. If the Fraud Section determines that a public
statement by any such person contradicts in whole or in part a statement contained in the
Statement of Facts, the Fraud Section shall so notify the Company, and the Company may avoid
a breach of this Agreement by publicly repudiating such statement(s) within five business days
after notification. The Company shall be permitted to raise defenses and to assert affirmative
claims in other proceedings relating to the matters set forth in the Statement of Facts provided

that such defenses and claims do not contradict, in whole or in part, a statement contained in the

19
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 20 of 68

Statement of Facts. This paragraph does not apply to any statement made by any present or
former officer, director, employee, or agent of the Company in the course of any criminal,
regulatory, or civil case initiated against such individual, unless such individual is speaking on
behalf of the Company.

24. The Company agrees that if it, its parent company, or any of its direct or indirect
subsidiaries or affiliates issues a press release or holds any press conference in connection with
this Agreement, the Company shall first consult with the Fraud Section to determine (a) whether
the text of the release or proposed statements at the press conference are true and accurate with
respect to matters between the Fraud Section and the Company; and (b) whether the Fraud
Section has any objection to the release.

25. The Fraud Section agrees, if requested to do so, to bring to the attention of law
enforcement and regulatory authorities the facts and circumstances relating to the nature of the
conduct underlying this Agreement, including the nature and quality of the Company’s
cooperation and remediation. By agreeing to provide this information to such authorities, the
Fraud Section is not agreeing to advocate on behalf of the Company, but rather is agreeing to
provide facts to be evaluated independently by such authorities.

Limitations on Binding Effect of Agreement

26. This Agreement is binding on the Company and the Fraud Section but
specifically does not bind any other component of the Department of Justice, other federal
agencies, or any state, local or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, or any other

authorities, although the Fraud Section will bring the cooperation of the Company and its

20
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 21 of 68

compliance with its other obligations under this Agreement to the attention of such agencies and
authorities if requested to do so by the Company.
Notice

27. Any notice to the Fraud Section under this Agreement shall be given by personal
delivery, overnight delivery by a recognized delivery service, or registered or certified mail,
addressed to: Chief of the FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S. Department of
Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005. Any notice to the Company
under this Agreement shall be given by personal delivery, overnight delivery by a recognized
delivery service, or registered or certified mail, addressed to Hideo Nakano, Chief Executive
Officer, 26200 Enterprise Way, Lake Forest, California, 92630, with a copy to Ronald C.
Machen, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, 1875 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20006. Notice shall be effective upon actual receipt by the Fraud Section or
the Company.

Complete Agreement

28. This Agreement, including its attachments, sets forth all the terms of the
agreement between the Company and the Fraud Section. No amendments, modifications, or
additions to this Agreement shall be valid unless they are in writing and signed by the Fraud

Section, the attorneys for the Company and a duly authorized representative of the Company.

21
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 22 of 68

AGREED:

FOR PANASONIC AVIONICS CORPORATION:

Date: April 2) 20lf By: DLs hu VAeh.——
Hideo Nakano, President and Chief
Executive Officer

Panasonic Avionics Corporation

Date: _ 4/27/18 By: Lbic

Ronald C. Machen, Esq.

Matthew T. Jones, Esq.

Kimberly A. Parker, Esq.

Erin G.H. Sloane, Esq.

Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr
LLP

Counsel for Panasonic Avionics
Corporation

FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE:

SANDRA MOSER

Acting Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division

United States Department of Justice

 

Date: Z 7 APR. Q2OIG BY:

 

2 a
Ennis. King
Jeremy-R. Sandet

Trial Attorneys

22

 
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 23 of 68

COMPANY OFFICER’S CERTIFICATE

I have read this Agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with outside counsel
for Panasonic Avionics Corporation (the “Company”). I understand the terms of this Agreement
and voluntarily agree, on behalf of the Company, to each of its terms. Before signing this
Agreement, I consulted outside counsel for the Company. Counsel fully advised me of the rights
of the Company, of possible defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines’ provisions, and of the
consequences of entering into this Agreement.

I have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors of the
Company. I have advised and caused outside counsel for the Company to advise the Board of
Directors fully of the rights of the Company, of possible defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines’
provisions, and of the consequences of entering into the Agreement.

No promises or inducements have been made other than those contained in this
Agreement. Furthermore, no one has threatened or forced me, or to my knowledge any person
authorizing this Agreement on behalf of the Company, in any way to enter into this Agreement.
I am also satisfied with outside counsel’s representation in this matter. I certify that I am the
President and Chief Executive Officer for the Company and that I have been duly authorized by

the Company to execute this Agreement on behalf of the Company.

Date: byvil 25 206

Panasonic Avionics Corporation

ny Dlicls Pk —

Hideo Nakano
President and Chief Executive Officer

 
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 24 of 68

CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL

Tam counsel for Panasonic Avionics Corporation (the “Company”) in the matter covered
by this Agreement. In connection with such representation, I have examined relevant Company
documents and have discussed the terms of this Agreement with the Company Board of
Directors, Based on our review of the foregoing materials and discussions, J am of the opinion
that the representative of the Company has been duly authorized to enter into this Agreement on
behalf of the Company and that this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed,
and delivered on behalf of the Company and is a valid and binding obligation of the Company,
Further, I have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors and
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. I have fully advised them of the rights of the
Company, of possible defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines’ provisions and of the
consequences of entering into this Agreement. To my knowledge, the decision of the Company
to enter into this Agreement, based on the authorization of the Board of Directors, is an informed

and voluntary one.

Date: Y[27/ /&

 

~ EME Z-

Ronald C, Machen, Esq.
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
Counsel for Panasonic Avionics Corporation

 
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 25 of 68

ATTACHMENT A
STATEMENT OF FACTS

1. The following Statement of Facts is incorporated by reference as part of the
Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement’”) between the United States Department of
Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section’) and Panasonic Avionics
Corporation (“PAC”). PAC hereby agrees and stipulates that the following information is true and
accurate. PAC admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible for the acts of its officers,
directors, employees, and agents as set forth below. Should the Fraud Section pursue the
prosecution that is deferred by this Agreement, PAC agrees that it will neither contest the
admissibility of, nor contradict, this Statement of Facts in any such proceeding. The following
facts establish beyond a reasonable doubt the charges set forth in the criminal Information attached
to this Agreement:

Relevant Entities and Individuals

2. Panasonic Corporation (“Panasonic’’) is a multinational electronics corporation
headquartered in Japan, which employs over 250,000 employees worldwide. Until April 22, 2013,
shares of Panasonic’s stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange as American Depository
Receipts, and Panasonic was required to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC’’) pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Title 15,
United States Code, Section 780(d). Panasonic was therefore an “issuer” within the meaning of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78dd-1(a) and

78m(b), until it deregistered on April 22, 2013, and again for a brief period between 2015 and 2016

A-1
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 26 of 68

as a result of a share swap transaction that retriggered Panasonic’s obligation to file its financial
statements with the SEC.

3. PAC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Panasonic that designs and distributes in-
flight entertainment systems (“IFE”) and global communications services (“GCS’’) for airlines and
airplane manufacturers. PAC is headquartered in Lake Forest, California, and employs
approximately 4,600 employees worldwide. PAC was therefore a “domestic concern” within the
meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h). PAC’s financial
statements are fully consolidated into Panasonic’s financial statements.

4. “PAC Executive 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud Section
and PAC, was an officer and high-level executive of PAC from at least 2005 until he was separated
from the Company in 2017. PAC Executive | was named as an Executive Officer of Panasonic
on April 1, 2013. At the end of each fiscal year for the relevant period, PAC Executive | was
responsible for signing certifications that PAC’s internal controls over its financial reporting were
functioning effectively for Sarbanes-Oxley consolidation purposes.

5. “PAC Executive 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud Section
and PAC, was an officer and high-level executive of PAC from approximately 2008 until June
2012. During the period that PAC Executive 2 served at PAC, he held a concurrent title at one of
Panasonic’s eight reporting segments. In April 2013, PAC Executive 2 assumed a senior
leadership role within one of Panasonic’s reporting segments. For fiscal years 2007 through 2011,
PAC Executive 2 signed PAC’s Sarbanes-Oxley certifications on behalf of the department he
oversaw within PAC, attesting that its internal controls over its financial reporting were

functioning effectively. PAC Executive 2 was separated from Panasonic in 2017.

A-2
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 27 of 68

6. “PAC Executive 3,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud Section
and PAC, was a senior finance executive at PAC from approximately 2009 until June 2012 when
he left PAC to assume a finance position within Panasonic. For fiscal years 2009 through 2011,
PAC Executive 3 signed PAC’s Sarbanes-Oxley certifications on behalf of PAC’s finance
department, attesting that PAC’s internal controls over its financial reporting were functioning
effectively.

7. “PAC Executive 4,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud Section
and PAC, was a senior finance executive at PAC from approximately June 2012 until April 2016.
For fiscal year 2012, PAC Executive 4 signed PAC’s Sarbanes-Oxley certification on behalf of
PAC’s finance department, attesting that PAC’s internal controls over its financial reporting were
functioning effectively. PAC Executive 4 was separated from Panasonic in 2018.

8. “PAC Sales Agent 1,” an individual whose identify is known to the Fraud Section
and PAC, served as PAC’s sole sales representative in PAC’s Middle East region for the marketing
and sale of IFEs from at least 1989 until his contract with PAC was terminated in 2016. PAC
Sales Agent | was an “agent” of PAC within the meaning of the FCPA, Title 15, United States
Code, Section 78dd-2(a).

9. “Service Provider,” an entity whose identity is known to the Fraud Section and
PAC, is a California corporation related to another corporation retained by PAC for technical
publication services.

10. “Middle East Airline,” an entity known to the Fraud Section and PAC, is a

commercial airline based in the Middle East that is wholly-owned by a foreign government.

A-3
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 28 of 68

Middle East Airline was an “instrumentality” of a foreign government, within the meaning of the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f)(1).

11. “Foreign Official,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud Section and
PAC, was employed as a senior contracts official at Middle East Airline until February 2008.
While so employed, Foreign Official was a “foreign official” within the meaning of the FCPA,
Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f)(1).

12. “Domestic Airline,” along with its successor corporate organization, both entities
known to the Fraud Section and PAC, were publicly-owned commercial airlines based in the
United States during the relevant period.

13. “Domestic Airline Consultant,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section and PAC, was employed as an account manager at PAC from 2000 until April 2007.
Beginning in May 2007, Domestic Airline Consultant served as a consultant for Domestic Airline
until December 2013.

14. “PAC Sales Agent 2,” an entity whose identity is known to the Fraud Section and
PAC, was a sales agent based in Malaysia that PAC contracted directly with to obtain and manage
contracts with multiple airlines, including state-owned airlines, throughout Asia until PAC
terminated its contract in 2015.

15. “PAC Sales Agent 3,” an entity whose identity is known to the Fraud Section and
PAC, was a sales agent based in Thailand that PAC contracted directly with to obtain and manage

contracts with a state-owned airline in Thailand until 2009.

A-4
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 29 of 68

16. “PAC Sales Agent 4,” an entity whose identity is known to the Fraud Section and
PAC, was a sales agent based in Singapore with which PAC sought to contract directly in 2010 to
obtain and manage contracts with a state-owned airline in Vietnam.

Overview of the Schemes

17. Between 2007 and 2013, PAC employees, including senior executives, engaged in
a scheme to retain consultants for improper purposes other than for providing actual consulting
services. The consultants were retained through Service Provider and were paid for out of a budget
over which PAC Executive | had complete control and discretion without meaningful oversight
by anyone at PAC or Panasonic. First, in July 2007, PAC executives began negotiating a
consulting position with Foreign Official at the same time that Foreign Official was involved in
negotiating a lucrative contract amendment on behalf of Middle East Airline with PAC. Although
Foreign Official ultimately did little work for PAC, over a six-year period PAC made $875,000 in
payments to Foreign Official that were accounted for in Panasonic’s accounting books and records
as legitimate consulting expenses. Second, in October 2007, PAC retained as a consultant
Domestic Airline Consultant who was already working as a consultant for Domestic Airline, and
then used Domestic Airline Consultant to obtain confidential non-public business information
about the airline, including information about its negotiations with PAC competitors. Over a five-
year period, PAC made $825,000 in payments to Domestic Airline Consultant that were accounted
for in Panasonic’s accounting books and records as legitimate consulting expenses. Despite
knowing that PAC was falsely recording these payments as legitimate consulting expenses, PAC

Executive | falsely certified in Sarbanes-Oxley certifications that “no deficiencies have been

A-5
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 30 of 68

identified and the internal control[s] over financial reporting have effectively functioned in [the]
company.”

18. Between 2007 and 2016, certain PAC employees also concealed PAC’s use of sales
agents in Asia, some of which did not pass PAC’s internal diligence requirements. PAC formally
terminated its relationship with these sales agents, as required by PAC’s compliance policies, but
certain PAC employees then secretly continued to use the agents by having them rehired as sub-
agents through PAC Sales Agent 2, which had passed PAC’s due diligence checks. Through this
process, PAC employees hid more than $7 million in payments to at least thirteen sub-agents, some
of which had not passed due diligence checks, by improperly reporting them as legitimate
commission payments to PAC Sales Agent 2 or other sales agents. Despite receiving warnings
and red flags about this conduct, PAC Executive 2 and other PAC employees took no action to
prevent the continued use of PAC Sales Agent 2 to funnel payments to other sales agents.

PAC’s Retention of Consultants Through the Office of the President Budget

19. To cover expenses incurred by at least one senior PAC executive, such as travel,
corporate entertainment, and consultancy payments, PAC designated an Office of the President
Budget. The Office of the President Budget was set annually by a PAC finance executive, in
consultation with PAC Executive 1. The funds allocated to the Office of the President Budget
were set on a yearly basis, based on the previous year’s costs and adjusted if changes in expenses
were expected. The Office of the President Budget was neither reviewed nor approved by any
Panasonic personnel. During the relevant period, the amount allocated to the Office of the

President Budget exceeded several hundred thousand dollars per year.

A-6
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 31 of 68

20. Funds expended from the Office of the President Budget were booked on PAC’s
general ledger in various categories, including travel, payroll, and consultant payments. As a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Panasonic, PAC’s financials were consolidated into Panasonic’s
books, records, and accounts. Expenses from the Office of the President Budget would roll up
into the “other general administrative expenses” line item on the books of a Panasonic reporting
segment and then ultimately into the “selling and general administrative expenses” line item on
Panasonic’s books, records, and accounts.

21. Despite providing for a discretionary fund, PAC failed to maintain internal
accounting controls reasonably designed to ensure that funds expended from the Office of the
President Budget were used for their intended purposes, were used in accordance with the law, and
were properly recorded in PAC’s, and ultimately Panasonic’s, books and records. In fact, PAC
Executive | had complete discretion over how to spend the funds allocated in the budget without
meaningful oversight by PAC Finance or any other personnel at PAC.

22. Beginning in at least October 2007 and continuing until at least January 2014, PAC
Executive | used the Office of the President Budget to make payments to multiple individuals,
including consultants that performed limited or no work for PAC with little to no supervision by
anyone at PAC. Instead of paying these consultants directly from PAC, PAC Executive | arranged
for these consultants to be formally retained, and paid, through Service Provider. Other than
providing basic administrative and payroll services, Service Provider was not involved in
managing or otherwise working with the consultants, but instead acted as a pass through for
purposes of invoicing PAC for the consultants, with PAC paying Service Provider a percentage of

the consultant’s payments. PAC would then pay the consultants through Service Provider for

A-7
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 32 of 68

consulting work ostensibly provided by the consultants, even when there was little or no evidence
of services being performed to justify the payments.

23. In 2010, PAC Executive 3 requested that PAC’s Internal Audit Department conduct
an audit of PAC’s “vendor selection, payment processing and contract execution.” At the
conclusion of the audit, PAC’s Internal Audit Department issued a report (the “Selected Vendor
Audit Report’) that identified a number of compliance risks associated with PAC’s use of Service
Provider to retain and pay consultants, including the lack of supervision over certain consultants
and a lack of deliverables provided to PAC from both Service Provider and the consultants
themselves.

24. Specifically, the Selected Vendor Audit Report identified as a “critical risk” that
PAC continued to pay consultants through Service Provider even though PAC’s agreement with
Service Provider had expired in May 2009. In addition, the report identified as a “high risk” the
fact that payments were made to multiple consultants in the absence of any deliverables provided
to PAC. The report also noted that PAC’s procurement department was “not involved in hiring
these consultants” and that the “visibility of the contract process needs to be enhanced.” An initial
version of the report, drafted in September 2010, concluded with a recommendation that “[Service
Provider] consultant payments should be carefully reviewed in light of FCPA regulation [sic]
due to lack of clarity in deliverables.” PAC Executive 3 received this version of the Selected
Vendor Audit Report in March 2011 and other senior PAC executives received this report in May
2012.

25. In December of 2010, an abbreviated version of the Selected Vendor Audit Report

was circulated among other PAC employees, including PAC Executive 2 and PAC Executive 3.

A-8
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 33 of 68

PAC Executive 4 received this version of the report in November 2012. Although this version of
the Selected Vendor Audit Report still identified the risks associated with the payments made
through Service Provider and the lack of deliverables for certain consultants, it omitted the final
concluding recommendation mentioning the FCPA and certain other observations and
recommendations, including the recommendation that “[p]rocurement should be consulted prior
to hiring any consultant or vendors.” No explanation was provided for omitting these additional
comments from the Selected Vendor Audit Report.

26. Despite the repeated distribution of these two versions of the Selected Vendor Audit
Report between 2010 and 2012 among several PAC employees, including PAC Executive 2, PAC
Executive 3, and PAC Executive 4, PAC failed to conduct any significant follow up to address the
issues raised by the report. Although, in response to a request from PAC, Service Provider began
to seek activity reports from consultants as to the work they provided on behalf of PAC, such
reports and other deliverables were provided only on an intermittent basis and typically provided
very little detail as to the nature of the work performed.

Foreign Official

27. In 2004, PAC signed a ten-year master product supply agreement with Middle East
Airline to provide IFEs on airplanes in Middle East Airline’s fleet. On November 12, 2007, PAC
and Middle East Airline executed an Amendment to the master agreement (known as Amendment
2), which encompassed a number of separate programs that ultimately earned PAC over $353
million in revenue between 2007 and 2015.

28. At the time of Amendment 2’s execution, and until February 2008, Foreign Official

was employed as a contracting manager at Middle East Airline and was PAC’s primary point of

A-9
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 34 of 68

contact at Middle East Airline for contract-related issues. In his position at Middle East Airline,
Foreign Official had the ability to take official action and exert official influence over certain
contractual terms within Amendment 2. Foreign Official primarily negotiated with PAC through
PAC Sales Agent 1.

29. Beginning in April 2007, PAC Sales Agent 1 and Foreign Official began discussing
a potential consultancy position for Foreign Official with PAC, while Foreign Official was still
employed by Middle East Airline and working on Amendment 2. In May 2007, PAC Sales Agent
1 began advocating for a position for Foreign Official with PAC executives, and in July 2007,
substantive discussions among PAC senior personnel, including PAC Executive 1 and PAC
Executive 2, regarding a consultant position for Foreign Official began in earnest. Contract
negotiations between Foreign Official and PAC continued through the fall of 2007, with PAC
ultimately making Foreign Official an offer of a consultant position with an annual salary of
$200,000 in late October 2007, while Foreign Official was still employed by Middle East Airline.

30. The master agreement between Middle East Airline and PAC prohibited PAC from
offering any consideration to employees of Middle East Airline. As a result, PAC Sales Agent 1
and PAC senior executives discussed the need to be circumspect about the negotiations
surrounding the consultancy offer to Foreign Official and the “risk” that PAC was assuming in
making a job offer to Foreign Official while he was still employed by Middle East Airline. For
example, on September 21, 2007, PAC Sales Agent 1 authored an email to three senior PAC
executives, including PAC Executive | and PAC Executive 2, in which he attached a marked-up
consultancy agreement for Foreign Official and commented that “[d]ue to his current status with

his present employer, [Foreign Official] does not want any one [sic] contacting him.” In response,

A-10
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 35 of 68

PAC Executive 2 stated that PAC “should be very sensitive to [Foreign Official]’s current
position” and added that “[w]hat we are doing for [Foreign Official] is a large risk for a corporation
like Panasonic. I think we still should for good reasons, but we must get this done above the table
with complete transparency.”

31. During this same time period, PAC and Middle East Airline were engaged in
negotiations regarding the terms of Amendment 2. In his role as an employee of Middle East
Airline, Foreign Official was responsible for interfacing with PAC and working on aspects of
Amendment 2, including drafting the contract language reflecting the terms agreed to by the
parties. Specifically, Foreign Official participated in email communications concerning contracts
included in Amendment 2 whereby Middle East Airline engaged PAC to supply IFEs for certain
leased planes. Because these planes were not newly manufactured, these contracts required PAC
to tailor the IFEs in order to “retrofit” the IFEs onto existing aircraft. Foreign Official was also
involved in the negotiations over a series of “reconfiguration” contracts included in Amendment
2 whereby Middle East Airline engaged PAC to reconfigure certain IFEs for newly installed
business class and first class seats on aircraft already equipped with PAC IFEs. For example,
Foreign Official authored an email on July 30, 2007, in which he advocated for Middle East Airline
to select a newer and more expensive PAC IFE model.

32. During this time period, Foreign Official also participated in certain negotiations
between PAC and Middle East Airline as to whether nonrecurring engineering (“NRE”) costs and
supplemental type certificates (“STC”) costs would be included in Amendment 2. On February
27, 2008, PAC Sales Agent 1 emailed PAC Executive 1 and PAC Executive 2 and stated that he

“worked tirelessly with [Foreign Official] to incorporate payment for NRE / STC/ Certification

A-11
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 36 of 68

costs for retrofits to be made part of the contract signed by [a foreign official representing Middle
East Airline] and [PAC Executive 1].”

33. Foreign Official resigned from Middle East Airline in February 2008 and was
formally retained as a consultant for PAC through Service Provider in April 2008. Foreign Official
performed minimal work in his six years of service as a consultant for PAC. Significantly, the
2010 Selected Vendor Audit Report noted that PAC’s Internal Audit Department was unable to
locate deliverables associated with Foreign Official’s consultancy. According to the report, after
following up with PAC employees, representatives of the Internal Audit Department were told that
deliverables for Foreign Official did not exist because PAC had requested no services of Foreign
Official in the twelve months prior to the report, although PAC still paid Foreign Official’s
invoices.

34. Foreign Official’s fees were paid out of the Office of the President Budget through
Service Provider. These payments were made in the absence of effective internal accounting
controls, including PAC’s failure to define the “consulting services” to be provided or obtain
sufficient documentation to substantiate the nature and appropriate value of the “consulting
services” provided by Foreign Official. Between 2008 and 2014, PAC paid Foreign Official
through Service Provider a total of $875,000 in payments, which were mischaracterized as
“consultant payments” on PAC’s general ledger, when in fact none, or very few, of the payments
to Foreign Official was for actual consultant services. PAC then caused the payments made to
Foreign Official through Service Provider ultimately to be incorrectly designated as “selling and

general administrative expenses” on Panasonic’s books, records, and accounts.
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 37 of 68

35. Between April 2007, when negotiations began with Foreign Official concerning an
offer of a consultant position at PAC, and March 2013, PAC earned $92,805,432 in profits from
Middle East Airline attributable to twelve programs subsumed under Amendment 2 for which
Foreign Official had some involvement or influence, including the IFE retrofit and reconfiguration
contracts and contracts for which NRE and STC costs were included.

Domestic Airline Consultant

36. Domestic Airline Consultant worked as an account manager at PAC from 2000
until April 2007, when he left PAC to serve as a consultant for Domestic Airline, one of PAC’s
largest customers at the time. In October 2007, while Domestic Airline Consultant was still
working as a consultant to Domestic Airline, PAC Executive 1 arranged for Domestic Airline
Consultant to be hired by Service Provider to serve as a consultant for PAC effective August 2007.
At the time, Domestic Airline Consultant had the ability to take action and exert influence over
the business relationship between Domestic Airline and PAC. Domestic Airline Consultant’s fees
were paid out of the Office of the President Budget through Service Provider. Domestic Airline
Consultant served in this dual consultancy role until December 2013 when he returned to PAC as
an employee of the Company. Domestic Airline Consultant was separated from PAC in February
of 2017. During the period of his dual consultancy, Domestic Airline Consultant reported to PAC
Executive 1.

37. Although Domestic Airline Consultant’s agreement with Domestic Airline
permitted him to undertake other consultant positions so long as they were not with other airlines,
that agreement prohibited him from disclosing confidential information. Despite this prohibition,

while Domestic Airline Consultant worked as a consultant for both PAC and Domestic Airline, he

A-13
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 38 of 68

provided non-public, inside, or otherwise sensitive information to PAC Executive | and others at
PAC, including forwarding internal communications among Domestic Airline’s employees about
PAC, information about Domestic Airline’s negotiations with a PAC competitor, and pricing
information of a PAC competitor. Domestic Airline Consultant typically marked communications
in which he provided such information with phrases such as “CONFIDENTIAL,” “DO NOT
FORWARD,” or similar statements suggesting the information was confidential or otherwise
sensitive.

38. For example, on July 22, 2008, Domestic Airline Consultant emailed several PAC
employees, including PAC Executive 1, and provided the price per IFE shipset for two different
types of airplanes that one of PAC’s competitors had quoted to another airline. Domestic Airline
Consultant prefaced his email with the statement “the following information did not come from
me....’”” One PAC employee replied to Domestic Airline Consultant’s email, stating “[y]ou always
have info which makes me shake my head.”

39. On September 23, 2011, Domestic Airline Consultant forwarded to three PAC
employees an internal Domestic Airline email chain between Domestic Airline Consultant and
various Domestic Airline employees discussing a Domestic Airline employee’s questions and
concerns about a recent business proposal made by PAC. In so doing, Domestic Airline Consultant
provided PAC with a window into the questions Domestic Airline had about PAC’s proposal
during the course of the negotiations between the two parties. Domestic Airline Consultant stated
in the email to PAC employees “please do not let [Domestic Airline] know that you have this from

99

me.

A-14
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 39 of 68

AO. Beyond the provision of such inside or otherwise non-public information, Domestic
Airline Consultant performed little additional work for PAC. Under the terms of his consultancy
agreement with Domestic Airline, Domestic Airline Consultant was responsible for managing the
relationship with PAC, including liaising with the engineering and marketing departments of both
parties during the execution of IFE and GCS contracts. In addition, Domestic Airline Consultant
served on Domestic Airline’s team that evaluated bids submitted by PAC and other vendors for
contracts to be awarded by Domestic Airline. In particular, during the dual consultancy period,
Domestic Airline Consultant served on two bid review teams for IFE contracts that Domestic
Airline ultimately awarded to PAC. As such, although Domestic Airline Consultant was not the
ultimate decision maker within Domestic Airline on awarding contracts, he had input into
Domestic Airline’s decision-making process to award business to PAC.

Al. Between October 2007 and December 2013, PAC paid Domestic Airline
Consultant a total of $825,000 in consultancy payments through Service Provider, which were
classified as “consultant payments” on PAC’s general ledger, despite the fact that these payments
were made in the absence of effective internal accounting controls, including PAC’s failure to
obtain sufficient documentation to substantiate the nature and appropriate value of the “consulting
services” provided by Domestic Airline Consultant. The payments made to Domestic Airline
Consultant through Service Provider were ultimately designated as “selling and general
administrative expenses” on Panasonic’s books, records, and accounts.

42. Between April 2008 and March 2013, PAC earned $22,693,571 in profits

attributable to business from Domestic Airline on three different programs for which Domestic
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 40 of 68

Airline Consultant had some involvement or influence, including, for example, by serving as a
member of Domestic Airline’s bid review committee.

Concealment of the Use of Sales Agents
that Did Not Meet PAC’s Diligence Requirements

43. Beginning in at least 1999 and continuing to at least 2016, PAC utilized the services
of several third-party sales agents in its China and Asia regions (which PAC designated as separate
sales regions between 2008 and 2013) to obtain and manage contracts with state-owned airlines.
The commissions PAC paid to such sales agents typically ranged from six to ten percent.

44. PAC failed to put in place adequate controls over its use of sales agents in China
and Asia and PAC employees disregarded red flags associated with these sales agents. For
example, some of the sales agents were recommended by the state-owned airlines themselves,
some sales agents were registered outside of the jurisdiction where they purportedly provided
services, and other sales agents were paid outside of the territory where they purportedly provided
services. In addition, historically, PAC performed only limited, informal due diligence before
retaining third-party sales agents.

45. Beginning in 2007, PAC began strengthening its internal controls over the retention
of third parties, ultimately implementing a formal requirement in 2009 that new and existing sales
agents, before engaging in new business on behalf of PAC, had to obtain certification from TRACE
International, a U.S. non-profit business membership organization that conducts due diligence
reviews of international commercial intermediaries. When certain sales agents in the China and
Asia regions did not pass the anti-bribery certification, PAC terminated its formal relationship with
these agents. Certain PAC employees, however, sought secretly to rehire these agents in

contravention of Company policy by rehiring them as “sub-agents” of PAC Sales Agent 2, a sales

A-16
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 41 of 68

agent that had obtained TRACE certification. PAC then relied upon the TRACE certification of
PAC Sales Agent 2 to continue working with the sub-agents who had failed, or declined to submit
to, the certification process. In such instances, the commission rates paid by PAC to PAC Sales
Agent 2 typically increased by | to 2 percent.

46. For example, beginning in 2003, PAC retained PAC Sales Agent 3 as a direct sales
agent for a state-owned airline in Asia. In 2009, an employee in PAC’s contracts department
emailed several employees in PAC’s Asia region, noting that PAC Sales Agent 3 was “un-
responsive on completing and submitting the TRACE Questionnaire” and inquired as to the “plan
for getting [PAC Sales Agent 3] to comply.” A PAC Asia marketing employee responsible for
interacting with PAC Sales Agent 3 replied that PAC Sales Agent 3 did not “seem keen to comply”
with the TRACE certification process and requested that a PAC contract with a state-owned airline
be transferred from PAC Sales Agent 3 to PAC Sales Agent 2.

47. Although PAC terminated its relationship with PAC Sales Agent 3 in 2009 due to
its refusal to comply with PAC’s certification requirement, in a series of email communications
beginning in early 2007, the PAC Asia marketing employee facilitated the creation of a sub-agent
relationship between PAC Sales Agent 3 and PAC Sales Agent 2. Between 2008 and 2010,
financial records indicate that PAC sent $3,780,198.65 to PAC Sales Agent 2 for the benefit of
PAC Sales Agent 3.

48. In 2010, the same PAC Asia marketing employee again endeavored to undermine
PAC’s efforts to obtain TRACE certification for its sales agents. In 2009, the owners of a
consulting company which had previously served as a direct sales agent for PAC in the Asia region

incorporated a new company, PAC Sales Agent 4, which the marketing employee sought to use as

A-17
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 42 of 68

a sales agent for PAC to obtain and manage business for a state-owned airline in Vietnam. After
the marketing employee was advised by PAC’s contracts department that the TRACE due
diligence report for PAC Sales Agent 4 “‘raise[d] issues under the FCPA” because one of its owners
“could be considered a ‘foreign official’ under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,” the marketing
employee used his personal email account to contact a representative of the consulting company,
suggesting that the two of them would “need to find another avenue” to engage PAC Sales Agent
4 if PAC’s legal department did not approve of the relationship as a result of the TRACE report.

49. In May 2011, PAC Executive 2 received a lengthy email from a senior employee
in PAC’s China region expressing a number of concerns, among them that the employee had “‘little
or no visibility” into the management of PAC’s sales agents in the region. Specifically, the director
noted that PAC “continues to place many programs with [PAC Sales Agent 2]” and that he was
“very surprised to see that many airlines in Asia are represented by this company (it appears as
many as 47 programs).” Despite this email, PAC Executive 2 and others took no action to prevent
the continued use of PAC Sales Agent 2 to funnel payments to other sales agents.

50. In total, between 2008 and April 22, 2013, financial records indicate that PAC Sales
Agent 2 received at least $7,182,972 from PAC for the benefit of thirteen different sub-agents,
including PAC Sales Agent 3. These payments were improperly booked as commission payments
to PAC Sales Agent 2, when in fact they were payments to other sales agents who were otherwise
ineligible to work with PAC. PAC then caused Panasonic likewise to falsify its books and records
in connection with these payments. PAC terminated its relationship with PAC Sales Agent 2 in

March of 2015.

A-18
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 43 of 68

Causing Panasonic to Falsify Its Books, Records, and Accounts

51. During the relevant time period, PAC caused Panasonic to falsify its books, records,
and accounts in connection with the improper retention of consultants through the Office of the
President Budget, the payment of such consultants through Service Provider, and the concealment
of the continued use of certain sales agents in China and Asia. Specifically, as noted above, the
$875,000 in consulting payments made to Foreign Official through Service Provider were falsely
classified as “consultant payments” on PAC’s general ledger and ultimately as “selling and general
administrative expenses” on Panasonic’s books, records, and accounts. In addition, the $7,182,972
in payments PAC paid to PAC Sales Agent 2 for the benefit of at least thirteen different sub-agents
were improperly booked by PAC as commission payments to PAC Sales Agent 2, when in fact
they were payments to other sales agents who were otherwise ineligible to work with PAC. PAC
then caused these payments to likewise be falsely recorded in Panasonic’s books, records, and
accounts.

52. Furthermore, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Panasonic, PAC was required to
provide representations and certifications to Panasonic about PAC’s financials and financial
controls. Specifically, PAC was required to provide certifications of PAC’s financial statements
for Sarbanes-Oxley consolidation purposes (the “subcertifications’’) at the end of each fiscal year.
In relevant part, the subcertifications required PAC Executive 1 to certify that “no deficiencies
have been identified and the internal control[s] over financial reporting have effectively functioned
in [the] company.” For each of the fiscal years ending on March 31st between 2010 and 2013,
PAC Executive | signed the subcertifications but failed to report PAC’s improper retention of

Foreign Official and Domestic Airline Consultant and the payments to those consultants made

A-19
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 44 of 68

through Service Provider, despite PAC Executive 1’s knowledge of PAC’s relationship with, and
payments to, Foreign Official and Domestic Airline Consultant in the absence of such internal
controls.

53. In each of the fiscal years ending on March 31st between 2010 and 2012, PAC
Executive 2 signed the subcertifications on behalf of his department despite (a) PAC Executive
2’s knowledge of PAC’s consulting relationship with Foreign Official; (b) PAC Executive 2’s
receipt of the Selected Vendor Audit Report in 2010, which made him aware of PAC’s improper
retention of consultants through the Office of the President Budget, including Foreign Official,
and the payments to those consultants made through Service Provider; and (c) PAC Executive 2’s
receipt of an email highlighting the excessive number of airlines represented by PAC Sales
Agent 2.

54. Finally, for each of the fiscal years ending on March 31st in 2011 and 2012, PAC
Executive 3 signed the subcertifications on behalf of PAC’s finance department, and, similarly,
for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013, PAC Executive 4 signed the subcertification on behalf
of PAC’s finance department. Both PAC Executive 3 and PAC Executive 4 signed these
subcertifications despite PAC Executive 3’s receipt of the Selected Vendor Audit Report in 2010
and 2011 and PAC Executive 4’s receipt of the Selected Vendor Audit Report in 2012, which
made them both aware of PAC’s improper retention of consultants through the Office of the
President Budget, including Foreign Official, and the payments to those consultants made through

Service Provider.

A-20
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 45 of 68

ATTACHMENT B

CERTIFICATE OF CORPORATE RESOLUTIONS

 

WHEREAS, Panasonic Avionics Corporation (the “Company’”) has been engaged in
discussions with the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the
“Fraud Section’) regarding issues arising in relation to false booked payments, certifications, and
other records; and

WHEREAS, in order to resolve such discussions, it is proposed that the Company enter
into a certain agreement with the Fraud Section; and

WHEREAS, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Hideo Nakano,
together with outside counsel for the Company, have advised the Board of Directors of the
Company of its rights, possible defenses, the Sentencing Guidelines’ provisions, and the
consequences of entering into such agreement with the Fraud Section;

Therefore, the Board of Directors has RESOLVED that:

1. The Company (a) acknowledges the filing of the one-count Information charging
the Company with the knowing and willful falsification of the books, records, and accounts of its
parent company Panasonic Corporation, in violation of, Title 15, United States Code, Sections
78m(b)(2)(A), (b)(4), (b)(5), and 78ff(a); (b) waives indictment on such charges and enters into a
deferred prosecution agreement with the Fraud Section; and (c) agrees to accept a monetary penalty
against Company totaling $137,403,812, and to pay such penalty to the United States Treasury
with respect to the conduct described in the Information;

2. The Company accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but

not limited to, (a) a knowing waiver of its rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth Amendment

B-1

 
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 46 of 68

to the United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161, and Federal Rule
of Criminal Procedure 48(b); and (b) a knowing waiver for purposes of this Agreement and any
charges by the United States arising out of the conduct described in the Statement of Facts of
any objection with respect to venue and consents to the filing of the Information, as provided
under the terms of this Agreement, in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia; and

(c) a knowing waiver of any defenses based on the statute of limitations for any prosecution
relating to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts or relating to conduct known to the
Fraud Section prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred by
the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement;

3, The President and Chief Executive Officer of Company, Hideo Nakano, is
hereby authorized, empowered and directed, on behalf of the Company, to execute the Deferred
Prosecution Agreement substantially in such form as reviewed by this Board of Directors with
such changes as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Company, Hideo Nakano, may
approve;

4. The President and Chief Executive Officer of Company, Hideo Nakano, is
hereby authorized, empowered and directed to take any and all actions as may be necessary or
appropriate and to approve the forms, terms or provisions of any agreement or other documents
as may be necessary or appropriate, to carry out and effectuate the purpose and intent of the
foregoing resolutions; and

5. All of the actions of the President and Chief Executive Officer of Company,

Hideo Nakano, which actions would have been authorized by the foregoing resolutions except

B-2

 
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 47 of 68

that such actions were taken prior to the adoption of such resolutions, are hereby severally

ratified, confirmed, approved, and adopted as actions on behalf of the Company.

roa

By: Corporate Secretary
Panasonic Avionics Corporation

  

 
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 48 of 68

ATTACHMENT C
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

In order to address any deficiencies in its internal controls, compliance code, policies,
and procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (““FCPA’’), 15
U.S.C. § 78dd-1, et seg., and other applicable anti-corruption laws, Panasonic Avionics
Corporation (the “Company’’) agrees to continue to conduct, in a manner consistent with all of its
obligations under this Agreement, appropriate reviews of its existing internal controls, policies,
and procedures.

Where necessary and appropriate, the Company agrees to modify its compliance
program, including internal controls, compliance policies, and procedures in order to ensure that
it maintains: (a) an effective system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure the
making and Keeping of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-
corruption compliance program that incorporates relevant internal accounting controls, as well as
policies and procedures designed to effectively detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws. At a minimum, this should include, but not be limited to, the
following elements to the extent they are not already part of the Company’s existing internal
controls, compliance code, policies, and procedures:

High-Level Commitment

1. The Company will ensure that its directors and senior management provide

strong, explicit, and visible support and commitment to its corporate policy against violations of

the anti-corruption laws and its compliance code.

C-]
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 49 of 68

Policies and Procedures

2. The Company will develop and promulgate a clearly articulated and visible
corporate policy against violations of the FCPA and other applicable foreign law counterparts
(collectively, the “anti-corruption laws,”), which policy shall be memorialized in a written
compliance code.

3. The Company will develop and promulgate compliance policies and procedures
designed to reduce the prospect of violations of the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s
compliance code, and the Company will take appropriate measures to encourage and support the
observance of ethics and compliance policies and procedures against violation of the anti-
corruption laws by personnel at all levels of the Company. These anti-corruption policies and
procedures shall apply to all directors, officers, and employees and, where necessary and
appropriate, outside parties acting on behalf of the Company in a foreign jurisdiction, including
but not limited to, agents and intermediaries, consultants, representatives, distributors, teaming
partners, contractors and suppliers, consortia, and joint venture partners (collectively, “agents
and business partners”). The Company shall notify all employees that compliance with the
policies and procedures is the duty of individuals at all levels of the company. Such policies and

procedures shall address:

a. gifts;

b. hospitality, entertainment, and expenses;
Cc. customer travel;

d. political contributions;

e. charitable donations and sponsorships;

C-2
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 50 of 68

f. facilitation payments; and
g. solicitation and extortion.
4. The Company will ensure that it has a system of financial and accounting

procedures, including a system of internal controls, reasonably designed to ensure the
maintenance of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts. This system should be designed
to provide reasonable assurances that:

a. transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or
specific authorization;

b. transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;

C. access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management’s
general or specific authorization; and

d. the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets
at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

Periodic Risk-Based Review
5. The Company will develop these compliance policies and procedures on the
basis of a periodic risk assessment addressing the individual circumstances of the Company, in
particular the foreign bribery risks facing the Company, including, but not limited to, its
geographical organization, interactions with various types and levels of government officials,

industrial sectors of operation, involvement in joint venture arrangements, importance of licenses

C-3
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 51 of 68

and permits in the Company’s operations, degree of governmental oversight and inspection, and
volume and importance of goods and personnel clearing through customs and immigration.

6. The Company shall review its anti-corruption compliance policies and
procedures no less than annually and update them as appropriate to ensure their continued
effectiveness, taking into account relevant developments in the field and evolving international
and industry standards.

Proper Oversight and Independence

7. The Company will assign responsibility to one or more senior corporate
executives of the Company for the implementation and oversight of the Company’s anti-
corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures. Such corporate official(s) shall have the
authority to report directly to independent monitoring bodies, including internal audit, the
Company’s Board of Directors, or any appropriate committee of the Board of Directors, and
shall have an adequate level of autonomy from management as well as sufficient resources and
authority to maintain such autonomy.

Training and Guidance

8. The Company will implement mechanisms designed to ensure that its anti-
corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures are effectively communicated to all
directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business
partners. These mechanisms shall include: (a) periodic training for all directors and officers, all
employees in positions of leadership or trust, positions that require such training (e.g., internal
audit, sales, legal, compliance, finance), or positions that otherwise pose a corruption risk to the

Company, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners; and (b)

C-4
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 52 of 68

corresponding certifications by all such directors, officers, employees, agents, and business
partners, certifying compliance with the training requirements.

9. The Company will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system
for providing guidance and advice to directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and
appropriate, agents and business partners, on complying with the Company’s anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures, including when they need advice on an urgent basis
or in any foreign jurisdiction in which the Company operates.

Internal Reporting and Investigation

10. The Company will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system
for internal and, where possible, confidential reporting by, and protection of, directors, officers,
employees, and, where appropriate, agents and business partners concerning violations of the
anti-corruption laws or the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and
procedures.

11. The Company will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective and
reliable process with sufficient resources for responding to, investigating, and documenting
allegations of violations of the anti-corruption laws or the Company’s anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures.

Enforcement and Discipline

12. The Company will implement mechanisms designed to effectively enforce its

compliance code, policies, and procedures, including appropriately incentivizing compliance and

disciplining violations.

C-5
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 53 of 68

13. The Company will institute appropriate disciplinary procedures to address,
among other things, violations of the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures by the Company’s directors, officers, and employees.
Such procedures should be applied consistently and fairly, regardless of the position held by, or
perceived importance of, the director, officer, or employee. The Company shall implement
procedures to ensure that where misconduct is discovered, reasonable steps are taken to remedy
the harm resulting from such misconduct, and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to
prevent further similar misconduct, including assessing the internal controls, compliance code,
policies, and procedures and making modifications necessary to ensure the overall anti-
corruption compliance program is effective.

Third-Party Relationships

14. The Company will institute appropriate risk-based due diligence and compliance
requirements pertaining to the retention and oversight of all agents and business partners,
including:

a. properly documented due diligence pertaining to the hiring and
appropriate and regular oversight of agents and business partners;

b. informing agents and business partners of the Company’s commitment to
abiding by anti-corruption laws, and of the Company’s anti-corruption compliance code,
policies, and procedures; and

C. seeking a reciprocal commitment from agents and business partners.

15. Where necessary and appropriate, the Company will include standard provisions

in agreements, contracts, and renewals thereof with all agents and business partners that are

C-6
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 54 of 68

reasonably calculated to prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws, which may, depending
upon the circumstances, include: (a) anti-corruption representations and undertakings relating to
compliance with the anti-corruption laws; (b) rights to conduct audits of the books and records of
the agent or business partner to ensure compliance with the foregoing; and (c) rights to terminate
an agent or business partner as a result of any breach of the anti-corruption laws, the Company’s
compliance code, policies, or procedures, or the representations and undertakings related to such
matters.

Mergers and Acquisitions

16. The Company will develop and implement policies and procedures for mergers
and acquisitions requiring that the Company conduct appropriate risk-based due diligence on
potential new business entities, including appropriate FCPA and anti-corruption due diligence by
legal, accounting, and compliance personnel.

17. The Company will ensure that the Company’s compliance code, policies, and
procedures regarding the anti-corruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to newly
acquired businesses or entities merged with the Company and will promptly:

a. train the directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners
consistent with Paragraph 8 above on the anti-corruption laws and the Company’s compliance
code, policies, and procedures regarding anti-corruption laws; and

b. where warranted, conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly acquired

or merged businesses as quickly as practicable.

C-7
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 55 of 68

Monitoring and Testing
18. The Company will conduct periodic reviews and testing of its anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures designed to evaluate and improve their effectiveness
in preventing and detecting violations of anti-corruption laws and the Company’s anti-corruption
code, policies, and procedures, taking into account relevant developments in the field and

evolving international and industry standards.

C-8
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 56 of 68

ATTACHMENT D
INDEPENDENT COMPLIANCE MONITOR

The duties and authority of the Independent Compliance Monitor (the “Monitor’’), and
the obligations of Panasonic Avionics Corporation (the “Company’’), on behalf of itself and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, with respect to the Monitor and the United States Department of
Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section’), are as described below:

1. The Company will retain the Monitor for a period of not less than two years (the
“Term of the Monitorship’’), unless the early termination provisions of Paragraph 3 of the
Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement’) are triggered. Subject to certain conditions
specified below that would, in the sole discretion of the Fraud Section, allow for an extension of
the Term of the Monitorship, the Monitor shall be retained until the criteria in Paragraphs 19 and
20 below are satisfied or the Agreement expires, whichever occurs first.

Monitor’s Mandate

2. The Monitor’s primary responsibility is to assess and monitor the Company’s
compliance with the terms of the Agreement, including the Corporate Compliance Program in
Attachment C, so as to specifically address and reduce the risk of any recurrence of the
Company’s misconduct. During the Term of the Monitorship, the Monitor will evaluate, in the
manner set forth below, the effectiveness of the internal accounting controls, record-keeping, and
financial reporting policies and procedures of the Company as they relate to the Company’s
current and ongoing compliance with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws
(collectively, the “anti-corruption laws’’) and take such reasonable steps as, in his or her view,

may be necessary to fulfill the foregoing mandate (the “Mandate”). This Mandate shall include

D-1
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 57 of 68

an assessment of the Board of Directors’ and senior management’s commitment to, and effective
implementation of, the corporate compliance program described in Attachment C of the
Agreement.

Company’s Obligations

3. The Company shall cooperate fully with the Monitor, and the Monitor shall have
the authority to take such reasonable steps as, in his or her view, may be necessary to be fully
informed about the Company’s compliance program in accordance with the principles set forth
herein and applicable law, including applicable data protection and labor laws and regulations.
To that end, the Company shall: facilitate the Monitor’s access to the Company’s documents and
resources; not limit such access, except as provided in Paragraphs 5 and 6; and provide guidance
on applicable local law (such as relevant data protection and labor laws). The Company shall
provide the Monitor with access to all information, documents, records, facilities, and
employees, as reasonably requested by the Monitor, that fall within the scope of the Mandate of
the Monitor under the Agreement. The Company shall use its best efforts to provide the Monitor
with access to the Company’s former employees and its third-party vendors, agents, and
consultants.

4. Any disclosure by the Company to the Monitor concerning corrupt payments shall
not relieve the Company of any otherwise applicable obligation to truthfully disclose such
matters to the Fraud Section, pursuant to the Agreement.

Withholding Access
5. The parties agree that no attorney-client relationship shall be formed between the

Company and the Monitor. In the event that the Company seeks to withhold from the Monitor

D-2
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 58 of 68

access to information, documents, records, facilities, or current or former employees of the
Company that may be subject to a claim of attorney-client privilege or to the attorney work-
product doctrine, or where the Company reasonably believes production would otherwise be
inconsistent with applicable law, the Company shall work cooperatively with the Monitor to
resolve the matter to the satisfaction of the Monitor.

6. If the matter cannot be resolved, at the request of the Monitor, the Company shall
promptly provide written notice to the Monitor and the Fraud Section. Such notice shall include
a general description of the nature of the information, documents, records, facilities, or current or
former employees that are being withheld, as well as the legal basis for withholding access. The
Fraud Section may then consider whether to make a further request for access to such
information, documents, records, facilities, or employees.

Monitor’s Coordination with the
Company and Review Methodology

7. In carrying out the Mandate, to the extent appropriate under the circumstances,
the Monitor should coordinate with Company personnel, including in-house counsel, compliance
personnel, and internal auditors, on an ongoing basis. The Monitor may rely on the product of
the Company’s processes, such as the results of studies, reviews, sampling and testing
methodologies, audits, and analyses conducted by or on behalf of the Company, as well as the
Company’s internal resources (e.g., legal, compliance, and internal audit), which can assist the
Monitor in carrying out the Mandate through increased efficiency and Company-specific
expertise, provided that the Monitor has confidence in the quality of those resources.

8. The Monitor’s reviews should use a risk-based approach, and thus, the Monitor is

not expected to conduct a comprehensive review of all business lines, all business activities, or

D-3
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 59 of 68

all markets. In carrying out the Mandate, the Monitor should consider, for instance, risks
presented by: (a) the countries and industries in which the Company operates; (b) current and
future business opportunities and transactions; (c) current and potential business partners,
including third parties and joint ventures, and the business rationale for such relationships; (d)
the Company’s gifts, travel, and entertainment interactions with foreign officials; and (e) the
Company’s involvement with foreign officials, including the amount of foreign government
regulation and oversight of the Company, such as licensing and permitting, and the Company’s
exposure to customs and immigration issues in conducting its business affairs.

9. In undertaking the reviews to carry out the Mandate, the Monitor shall formulate
conclusions based on, among other things: (a) inspection of relevant documents, including the
Company’s current anti-corruption policies and procedures; (b) on-site observation of selected
systems and procedures of the Company at sample sites, including internal accounting controls,
record-keeping, and internal audit procedures; (c) meetings with, and interviews of, relevant
current and, where appropriate, former directors, officers, employees, business partners, agents,
and other persons at mutually convenient times and places; and (d) analyses, studies, and testing
of the Company’s compliance program.

Monitor’s Written Work Plans

10. To carry out the Mandate, during the Term of the Monitorship, the Monitor shall
conduct an initial review and prepare an initial report, followed by at least one follow-up review
and report as described in Paragraphs 16 through 18 below. With respect to the initial report,
after consultation with the Company and the Fraud Section, the Monitor shall prepare the first

written work plan within thirty calendar days of being retained, and the Company and the Fraud

D-4
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 60 of 68

Section shall provide comments within fifteen calendar days after receipt of the written work
plan. With respect to each follow-up report, after consultation with the Company and the Fraud
Section, the Monitor shall prepare a written work plan at least thirty calendar days prior to
commencing a review, and the Company and the Fraud Section shall provide comments within
fifteen calendar days after receipt of the written work plan. Any disputes between the Company
and the Monitor with respect to any written work plan shall be decided by the Fraud Section in
its sole discretion.

11. All written work plans shall identify with reasonable specificity the activities the
Monitor plans to undertake in execution of the Mandate, including a written request for
documents. The Monitor’s work plan for the initial review shall include such steps as are
reasonably necessary to conduct an effective initial review in accordance with the Mandate,
including by developing an understanding, to the extent the Monitor deems appropriate, of the
facts and circumstances surrounding any violations that may have occurred before the date of the
Agreement. In developing such understanding the Monitor is to rely to the extent possible on
available information and documents provided by the Company. It is not intended that the
Monitor will conduct his or her own inquiry into the historical events that gave rise to the
Agreement.

Initial Review

12. The initial review shall commence no later than sixty calendar days from the date
of the engagement of the Monitor (unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the Monitor, and
the Fraud Section). The Monitor shall issue a written report within one hundred twenty calendar

days of commencing the initial review, setting forth the Monitor’s assessment and, if necessary,

D-5
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 61 of 68

making recommendations reasonably designed to improve the effectiveness of the Company’s
program for ensuring compliance with the anti-corruption laws. The Monitor should consult
with the Company concerning his or her findings and recommendations on an ongoing basis and
should consider the Company’s comments and input to the extent the Monitor deems
appropriate. The Monitor may also choose to share a draft of his or her reports with the
Company and the Fraud Section prior to finalizing them. The Monitor’s reports need not recite
or describe comprehensively the Company’s history or compliance policies, procedures and
practices, but rather may focus on those areas with respect to which the Monitor wishes to make
recommendations, if any, for improvement or which the Monitor otherwise concludes merit
particular attention. The Monitor shall provide the report to the Board of Directors of the
Company and contemporaneously transmit copies to: Chief of the FCPA Unit, Fraud Section,
Criminal Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20005. After consultation with the Company, the Monitor may extend the time period for
issuance of the initial report for a brief period of time with prior written approval of the Fraud
Section.

13. Within one hundred twenty calendar days after receiving the Monitor’s initial
report, the Company shall adopt and implement all recommendations in the report, unless, within
fifteen calendar days of receiving the report, the Company notifies in writing the Monitor and the
Fraud Section of any recommendations that the Company considers unduly burdensome,
inconsistent with applicable law or regulation, impractical, excessively expensive, or otherwise
inadvisable. With respect to any such recommendation, the Company need not adopt that

recommendation within one hundred twenty calendar days of receiving the report but shall

D-6
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 62 of 68

propose in writing to the Monitor and the Fraud Section an alternative policy, procedure, or
system designed to achieve the same objective or purpose. As to any recommendation on which
the Company and the Monitor do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an
agreement within fifteen calendar days after the Company serves the written notice.

14. In the event the Company and the Monitor are unable to agree on an acceptable
alternative proposal, the Company shall promptly consult with the Fraud Section. The Fraud
Section may consider the Monitor’s recommendation and the Company’s reasons for not
adopting the recommendation in determining whether the Company has fully complied with its
obligations under the Agreement. Pending such determination, the Company shall not be
required to implement any contested recommendation(s).

15. With respect to any recommendation that the Monitor determines cannot
reasonably be implemented within one hundred twenty calendar days after receiving the report,
the Monitor may extend the time period for implementation with prior written approval of the
Fraud Section.

Follow-Up Review

16. The follow-up review shall commence no later than ninety calendar days after the
issuance of the initial report (unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the Monitor and the
Fraud Section). The Monitor shall issue a written follow-up report within one hundred twenty
calendar days of commencing the follow-up review, setting forth the Monitor’s assessment and,
if necessary, making recommendations in the same fashion as set forth in Paragraph 12 with
respect to the initial review. The Monitor shall also certify whether the Company’s compliance

program, including its policies and procedures, is reasonably designed and implemented to

D-7
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 63 of 68

prevent and detect violations of the anti-corruption laws. After consultation with the Company,
the Monitor may extend the time period for issuance of the follow-up report for a brief period of
time with prior written approval of the Fraud Section.

17. Within ninety calendar days after receiving the Monitor’s follow-up report, the
Company shall adopt and implement all recommendations in the report, unless, within fifteen
calendar days after receiving the report, the Company notifies in writing the Monitor and the
Fraud Section concerning any recommendations that the Company considers unduly
burdensome, inconsistent with applicable law or regulation, impractical, excessively expensive,
or otherwise inadvisable. With respect to any such recommendation, the Company need not
adopt that recommendation within the ninety calendar days of receiving the report but shall
propose in writing to the Monitor and the Fraud Section an alternative policy, procedure, or
system designed to achieve the same objective or purpose. As to any recommendation on which
the Company and the Monitor do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an
agreement within fifteen calendar days after the Company serves the written notice.

18. In the event the Company and the Monitor are unable to agree on an acceptable
alternative proposal, the Company shall promptly consult with the Fraud Section. The Fraud
Section may consider the Monitor’s recommendation and the Company’s reasons for not
adopting the recommendation in determining whether the Company has fully complied with its
obligations under the Agreement. Pending such determination, the Company shall not be

required to implement any contested recommendation(s).

D-8
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 64 of 68

Certification of Compliance
and Termination of the Monitorship

19. At the conclusion of the ninety calendar day period following the issuance of the
follow-up report, if the Monitor believes that the Company’s compliance program is reasonably
designed and implemented to detect and prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws and is
functioning effectively, the Monitor shall certify the Company’s compliance with its compliance
obligations under the Agreement. The Monitor shall then submit to the Fraud Section a written
report (“Certification Report’) within sixty calendar days. The Certification Report shall set
forth an overview of the Company’s remediation efforts to date, including the implementation
status of the Monitor’s recommendations, and an assessment of the sustainability of the
Company’s remediation efforts. The Certification Report should also recommend the scope of
the Company’s future self-reporting. Also at the conclusion of the ninety calendar day period
following the issuance of the follow-up report, the Company shall certify in writing to the Fraud
Section, with a copy to the Monitor, that the Company has adopted and implemented all of the
Monitor’s recommendations in the initial and follow-up report(s), or the agreed-upon
alternatives. The Monitor or the Company may extend the time period for issuance of the
Certification Report or the Company’s certification, respectively, with prior written approval of
the Fraud Section.

20. At such time as the Fraud Section approves the Certification Report and the
Company’s certification, the monitorship shall be terminated, and the Company will be permitted
to self-report to the Fraud Section on its enhanced compliance obligations for the remainder of

the term of the Agreement. The Fraud Section, however, reserves the right to terminate the

D-9
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 65 of 68

monitorship absent certification by the Monitor, upon a showing by the Company that
termination is, nevertheless, in the interests of justice.

21. If permitted to self-report to the Fraud Section, the Company shall thereafter
submit to the Fraud Section a written report every six months setting forth a complete description
of its remediation efforts to date, its proposals to improve the Company’s internal accounting
controls, policies, and procedures for ensuring compliance with the anti-corruption laws, and the
proposed scope of the subsequent reviews. The report shall be transmitted to: Chief of the FCPA
Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 1400 New York Avenue,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005. The Company may extend the time period for issuance of the
self-report with prior written approval of the Fraud Section.

Extension of the Term of the Monitorship

22. If, however, at the conclusion of the ninety calendar-day period following the
issuance of the follow-up report, the Fraud Section concludes that the Company has not by that
time successfully satisfied its compliance obligations under the Agreement, the Term of the
Monitorship shall be extended for one year.

23. Under such circumstances, the Monitor shall commence the second follow-up
review no later than sixty calendar days after the Fraud Section concludes that the Company has
not successfully satisfied its compliance obligations under the Agreement (unless otherwise
agreed by the Company, the Monitor, and the Fraud Section). The Monitor shall issue a written
follow-up report within one hundred twenty calendar days of commencing the second follow-up
review in the same fashion as set forth in Paragraph 12 with respect to the initial review and in

accordance with the procedures for follow-up reports set forth in Paragraphs 16 through 18. A

D-10
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 66 of 68

determination to terminate the monitorship shall then be made in accordance with Paragraphs 19
through 20.

24. If, after completing the second follow-up review, the Fraud Section again
concludes that the Company has not successfully satisfied its obligations under the Agreement
with respect to the Monitor’s Mandate, the Term of the Monitorship shall be extended until
expiration of the Agreement, and the Monitor shall commence a third follow-up review within
sixty calendar days after the Fraud Section concludes that the Company has not successfully
satisfied its compliance obligations under the Agreement (unless otherwise agreed by the
Company, the Monitor, and the Fraud Section). The Monitor shall issue a written follow-up
report within one hundred twenty calendar days of commencing the third follow-up review in the
same fashion as set forth in Paragraph 12 with respect to the initial review and in accordance
with the procedures for follow-up reports set forth in Paragraphs 16 through 18.

Monitor’s Discovery of Potential or Actual Misconduct

25. (a) Except as set forth below in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c), should the
Monitor discover during the course of his or her engagement that improper payments or anything
else of value may have been offered, promised, made, or authorized by any entity or person
within the Company or any entity or person working, directly or indirectly, for or on behalf of
the Company (“Potential Misconduct’), the Monitor shall immediately report the Potential
Misconduct to the Company’s General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, and/or Audit
Committee for further action, unless the Potential Misconduct was already so disclosed. The
Monitor also may report Potential Misconduct to the Fraud Section at any time, and shall report

Potential Misconduct to the Fraud Section when it requests the information.

D-11
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 67 of 68

(b) If the Monitor believes that any Potential Misconduct actually occurred or
may constitute a criminal or regulatory violation (“Actual Misconduct’), the Monitor shall
immediately report the Actual Misconduct to the Fraud Section. When the Monitor discovers
Actual Misconduct, the Monitor shall disclose the Actual Misconduct solely to the Fraud
Section, and, in such cases, disclosure of the Actual Misconduct to the General Counsel, Chief
Compliance Officer, and/or the Audit Committee of the Company should occur as the Fraud
Section and the Monitor deem appropriate under the circumstances.

(c) The Monitor shall address in his or her reports the appropriateness of the
Company’s response to disclosed Potential Misconduct or Actual Misconduct, whether
previously disclosed to the Fraud Section or not. Further, if the Company or any entity or person
working directly or indirectly on behalf of the Company withholds information necessary for the
performance of the Monitor’s responsibilities and the Monitor believes that such withholding is
without just cause, the Monitor shall also immediately disclose that fact to the Fraud Section and
address the Company’s failure to disclose the necessary information in his or her reports.

(d) Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf shall take any action
to retaliate against the Monitor for any such disclosures or for any other reason.

Meetings During Pendency of Monitorship
26. The Monitor shall meet with the Fraud Section within thirty calendar days after
providing each report to the Fraud Section to discuss the report, to be followed by a meeting
between the Fraud Section, the Monitor, and the Company.
27. At least annually, and more frequently if appropriate, representatives from the

Company and the Fraud Section will meet together to discuss the monitorship and any

D-12
Case 1:18-cr-00118-RBW Document 2-1 Filed 04/30/18 Page 68 of 68

suggestions, comments, or improvements the Company may wish to discuss with or propose to
the Fraud Section, including with respect to the scope or costs of the monitorship.
Contemplated Confidentiality of Monitor’s Reports

28. The reports will likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and competitive
business information. Moreover, public disclosure of the reports could discourage cooperation,
or impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the objectives of
the monitorship. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the contents thereof are
intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except as otherwise agreed to by the parties in
writing, or except to the extent that the Fraud Section determines in its sole discretion that
disclosure would be in furtherance of the Fraud Section’s discharge of its duties and

responsibilities or is otherwise required by law.

D-13
