UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 90243 / October 22, 2020

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 4191 / October 22, 2020

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-20132

 

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-

In the Matter of DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
THE GOLDMAN SACHS EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
GROUP, INC., FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE-

AND-DESIST ORDER
Respondent.

 

 

I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. (“Goldman Sachs” or “Respondent” or the “Company”.

I.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this
Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set
forth below.
IIl.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds! that:
SUMMARY

1. This matter relates to a scheme perpetrated by now former senior employees of
Goldman Sachs who authorized and paid bribes and kickbacks to government officials in Malaysia
and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi (“Abu Dhabr’) in order to secure lucrative business for the
Company and benefits for themselves. Goldman Sachs violated the antibribery, books and records
and internal accounting controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (““FCPA”) in
connection with the scheme.

2. 1 Malaysia Development Berhad (“1 MDB”) is a Malaysian state-owned and
controlled investment fund created to pursue projects for the economic benefit of Malaysia and its
people. Between approximately 2009 and 2014, as IMDB raised capital to fund its projects,
billions of dollars were diverted from IMDB. The diverted funds included a substantial portion of
the approximately $6.5 billion in capital that IMDB raised in 2012 and 2013 through three bond
offerings that it executed with Goldman Sachs (the “Bond Deals”). As part of the scheme, certain
former senior employees of Goldman Sachs authorized and paid bribes to government officials in
Malaysia and in Abu Dhabi to obtain and retain lucrative business for Goldman Sachs, including
the 2012 and 2013 bond deals, from which Goldman Sachs earned approximately $600 million.

Respondent

3. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a U.S. based global investment banking,
securities, and investment management firm headquartered in New York, New York. The
common stock of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is
listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the stock symbol “GS.” The Company
is and was an “issuer” within the meaning of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (““FCPA”) during
the relevant period.

Related Entities and Individuals

4. IMDB was a strategic investment and development company wholly-owned by the
Malaysian government through the Malaysian Ministry of Finance. It was formed in 2009 when
the Malaysian government took control of a municipal entity called Terengganu Investment
Authority (“TIA”). IMDB was created to pursue investment and development projects for the
economic benefit of Malaysia and its people, primarily relying on debt to fund these investments.
IMDB’s development projects were focused in the areas of energy, real estate, tourism and
agribusiness. IMDB was overseen by senior Malaysian government officials, was controlled by
the Malaysian government, and performed a government function on behalf of Malaysia.

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
5. The Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund was an investment fund wholly-
owned by the government of Abu Dhabi. It was established by the government of Abu Dhabi
pursuant to an Emiri Decree in or around 1984 with a mandate to advance Abu Dhabi’s natural
petroleum wealth for the development of the emirate. The Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund
was overseen by senior Abu Dhabi government officials, was controlled by the Abu Dhabi
government, which appointed all the members of the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund’s
board of directors, and performed a government function on behalf of Abu Dhabi.

6. The Middle Eastern Investment Firm, a subsidiary of the Middle Eastern
Sovereign Wealth Fund, was a private joint stock company incorporated under the laws of Abu
Dhabi.

7. Tim Leissner, age 51, was employed by Goldman Sachs between 1998 and
February 2016. Prior to his separation from Goldman Sachs, Leissner was a participating
managing director (or “partner”’), vice chairman of Investment Banking in Asia Ex-Japan, and
chairman of South East Asia. Leissner was a banker with relationship management responsibility
for various clients in the Asia Ex-Japan region, including IMDB.

8. Jho Low, age 38, is a Malaysian national who advised on the creation of TIA,
1MDB’s predecessor entity. Jho Low has never held a formal position at IMDB. Jho Low
nevertheless exercised significant control over 1MDB during the time period relevant to the Order.
Jho Low worked as a finder and intermediary in relation to IMDB officials and other government
officials on a number of financial transactions and projects involving Goldman Sachs.

9. Roger Ng, age 47, is a Malaysian national who was employed as a Managing
Director and acted as an agent of Goldman Sachs. He worked with Leissner at Goldman Sachs
from approximately 2009 to May 2014.

10. Najib Razak, age 67, was the Prime Minister of Malaysia from 2009 to 2018 who
held a position of authority with IMDB.

FACTS

Background

11. 1MDB was formed in or around 2009, when the Malaysian government asserted
federal control over TIA, which previously had been a development fund controlled by the
Malaysian state of Terengganu.

12. 1MDB was created for the stated purpose of pursuing investment projects for the
economic benefit of Malaysia and its people, relying mainly on debt to support these projects.
IMDB was supervised by senior Malaysian government officials, controlled by the Malaysian
government, and performed a government function on behalf of Malaysia. Upon 1MDB’s
formation, Najib Razak assumed a position of authority with IMDB. Najib Razak had the
authority to approve all appointments to, and removals from, 1 MDB’s Board of Directors and
IMDB’s Senior Management Team. In addition, any financial commitments by IMDB, including
investments, that were likely to affect a guarantee given by the government of Malaysia for the

3
benefit of IMDB or any policy of the Malaysian government, required the approval of Najib
Razak.

Malaysian Intermediary Jho Low

13. Low, a Malaysian national with close ties to senior Malaysian government officials,
had advised on the creation of TIA, 1MDB’s predecessor entity in 2009. Thereafter, he continued
to act as an intermediary or finder for 1MDB in relation to a number of financial transactions and
projects, including those involving Goldman Sachs.

14. Goldman Sachs, through its participating managing director Leissner, was retained
to provide financial advice to the government of Malaysia on the same TIA project in 2009
(“Project Tiara’). Certain senior Goldman Sachs employees, including at least Leissner and Ng,
knew that Low worked as a finder and intermediary in relation to TIA at the time of Project Tiara.
Leissner and Ng would later work to conceal Low’s involvement in Goldman-related transactions
from others at the Company. They did so knowing that Low remained close to 1MDB officials
and other government officials in Malaysia, including Najib Razak, and Abu Dhabi.

Goldman Sachs’s Anti-Corruption Program and Deal Approval Process

15. Goldman Sachs had a general anti-corruption policy (including both a written
Statement of Principles Regarding Anti-Bribery and related policies and procedures, collectively
the “Anti-Bribery Policy”) applicable to all employees that expressly prohibited improper
payments to government officials intended to obtain or retain business for the company. Goldman
Sachs’s Anti-Bribery Policy was overseen and enforced by its compliance function (the
“Compliance Group”) and its Business Intelligence Group (the “Intelligence Group”).

16. In addition to the Anti-Bribery Policy aspects of Goldman Sachs’s system of
internal accounting controls, including the committee review process, were intended to help ensure
that transactions were executed in accordance with management’s wishes. The Compliance Group
and the Intelligence Group worked with, and as part of, various Goldman Sachs committees (“GS
Committees”) in reviewing transactions.

17. Goldman Sachs’s role as underwriter for the Bond Deals meant that the firm would
be using its own capital to fund the initial purchase of the IMDB bonds. Accordingly, the
transactions were formally reviewed and approved by multiple GS Committees including the
Firmwide Capital Committee (“GS Capital Committee”). The GS Capital Committee’s charter
states as follows:

The Committee provides approval and oversight globally of debt-related
transactions, including principal commitments of the Firm’s capital. The
Committee aims to ensure that business, reputational and suitability standards for
underwritings and capital commitments are maintained on a global basis.

18. The GS Committees played a critical role in the chain of management approvals
necessary for transactions such as the Bond Deals to be consummated. At the time of the Bond
Deals, transactions could be granted conditional approval by the GS Capital Committee, provided
there was further follow-up on specified issues prior to deal execution. In terms of recordkeeping
and documentation, the principal inputs to the GS Capital Committee were the internal memoranda
prepared by deal team members under the supervision of senior employees such as Leissner, and
the principal outputs were written meeting minutes that should record the GS Capital Committee’s
decisions and set forth any prerequisite follow-up items.

Early Attempts To Do Business With Jho Low

19. Following the successful establishment of IMDB in 2009, Leissner and Ng
supported at least three separate attempts to make Low a formal client of Goldman Sachs. These
efforts took place between September 2009 and March 2011. Leissner and Ng supported them
because, in part, they believed that Low would work to deliver lucrative business deals, including
from 1MDB, for the benefit of Goldman Sachs.

20. These attempts were unsuccessful because certain personnel within Goldman
Sachs’s Compliance Group and Intelligence Group refused to approve any client relationship with
Low based, in part, on concerns that these groups had concerning the source of Low’s wealth.
Personnel within the Compliance Group and the Intelligence Group communicated the rejection of
Low’s client application to Leissner and others within Goldman Sachs.

21. For example, in early 2011, another Goldman Sachs senior employee was aware
that Leissner and Ng attempted to advise a business controlled by Low. This proposed
engagement was declined following concerns raised by the Intelligence Group regarding Low and
his source of wealth, among other things. Thus, the other Goldman Sachs senior employee was
aware that the Intelligence Group was unlikely to approve proposed Goldman Sachs business
involving Low.

22. Notwithstanding Leissner, Ng and the other senior employee’s knowledge of the
concerns that had been raised about Low not being a suitable client for Goldman Sachs, they
continued to work with Low based upon their belief that Low would help ensure that government
officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi would deliver lucrative business deals to Goldman Sachs.

The Bond Deals

23. Goldman Sachs was subsequently retained by IMDB in 2012 and 2013 to assist it
with three large debt financings — “the Bond Deals.” Leissner and other employees of Goldman
Sachs knew that Low was playing a central role in these transactions, including by acting as an
intermediary between Goldman Sachs, IMDB and other Malaysian and Abu Dhabi government
officials. Leissner and Ng also knew that Low promised to pay bribes and kickbacks to these
officials to secure IMDB business for Goldman Sachs.

24. Throughout 2012 and 2013, Leissner and Ng actively worked to obtain and retain
business from IMDB for the benefit of Goldman Sachs through the promise and payment of bribes
and kickbacks to government officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi using, in part, misappropriated
and embezzled proceeds from the Bond Deals. During this time, through the course of the scheme,
Leissner, Low and others paid millions of dollars in bribes and kickbacks to government officials,
and secured IMDB business for Goldman Sachs, in particular, the three Bond Deals and related
transactions. These three bond financing transactions were referred to internally at Goldman Sachs
as “Project Magnolia,” “Project Maximus” and “Project Catalyze.”

25. Although the purported purpose of the approximately $6.5 billion raised by the
three bond transactions was to support 1 MDB projects for the benefit of the Malaysian people,
Leissner, Low and others instead planned and executed a scheme to misappropriate more than $2.7
billion and distribute the money as bribes and kickbacks to government officials in Malaysia and
Abu Dhabi, including but not limited to Najib Razak, as well as benefits to other participants in the
scheme and their families, including Leissner.

Goldman Sachs Obtains Project Magnolia from IMDB

26. On at least two occasions in early 2012, senior employees of Goldman Sachs met
with Low and IMDB officials to discuss IMDB’s proposed purchase of a Malaysian energy
company, Tanjong Energy Holdings Sdn Bhd, (“Tanjong”) and Goldman Sachs’s preparedness to
help obtain financing for the purchase. This financing transaction was known as “Project
Magnolia,” which ultimately closed in May 2012, earning approximately $193 million for
Goldman Sachs.

27. During these early-2012 meetings in Malaysia and London, according to Leissner,
the attendees discussed with Low the type of financial guarantee that 1MDB needed to obtain for
the bond issuance to meet Goldman Sachs’s underwriting requirements. They ultimately agreed on
a guarantee from Abu Dhabi’s Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund. During this time and
afterward, Leissner and other senior employees of Goldman Sachs understood that Low was acting
as an intermediary between IMDB, Najib Razak and other government officials from Abu Dhabi.

28. During a meeting in London in February 2012, Low explained that in order to
secure the guarantee from the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund they would have to pay
bribes and kickbacks to government officials, including to certain officials in Malaysia and Abu
Dhabi. After the February 2012 meeting, Leissner, Ng and another senior employee of Goldman
Sachs discussed this information.

29. In March 2012, IMDB formally engaged Goldman Sachs to be the sole underwriter
for the $1.75 billion debt financing transaction designed, in part, to pay for the acquisition of
Tanjong, which was guaranteed by the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund.

30. Shortly thereafter in March 2012, Leissner and other employees of Goldman Sachs
met in Abu Dhabi with Low and certain IMDB officials and officials of the Middle Eastern
Sovereign Wealth Fund and the Middle Eastern Investment Firm to discuss the contemplated
guarantee for Project Magnolia. Throughout that time, senior employees of Goldman Sachs,
including Leissner, knew Low had arranged the meetings with the officials of the Middle Eastern
Sovereign Wealth Fund and its subsidiary, the Middle Eastern Investment Firm, and Leissner and
Ng also knew that some of these officials, among others, would be paid bribes by Low to secure
the guarantee.
31. Leissner, Ng and another senior employee of Goldman Sachs also knew that Low
would pay bribes and kickbacks to influence Malaysian officials to obtain the necessary approvals
to execute Project Magnolia for Goldman Sachs. During the months leading up to the issuance of
the Project Magnolia bonds, Leissner knew that Low enlisted 1MDB officials to assist him in
ensuring that all necessary approvals were obtained from 1MDB officials and others to complete
the transaction, in exchange for bribes and kickbacks to those IMDB officials.

32. In April 2012, before the closing of Project Magnolia, Leissner and other members
of the deal team participated in a GS Committee meeting that included many senior Goldman
Sachs executives participating from multiple locations globally, including New York City, New
York. The meeting was convened for the purpose of approving Goldman Sachs’s potential
commitment of capital in Project Magnolia. During the meeting, Leissner was directly asked
whether Low was involved in Project Magnolia. Leissner told the GS Committee that Low was
not involved in Project Magnolia, though he and other senior employees of Goldman Sachs knew
at the time that this statement was false.

33. In late May 2012, near the closing of Project Magnolia, Leissner actively worked
with Ng and Low to divert some of the bond proceeds that Goldman Sachs raised from Project
Magnolia into the bank accounts of shell companies that Leissner, Ng and Low beneficially owned
and controlled. These individuals each understood and expected to keep some of the diverted
funds for their personal use, and that other funds would be used to pay bribes and kickbacks to
government officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi and elsewhere in exchange for their assistance in
obtaining and retaining business for Goldman Sachs in connection with Project Magnolia.

34. Goldman Sachs transferred the proceeds of the Magnolia bond offering via wire to
the IMDB entity designated to receive the payment. At the time, Leissner, Low and others knew
that a large portion of the proceeds of the bond offering would be diverted to themselves and
others, including government officials, through shell companies beneficially owned and controlled
by Low, Leissner and others.

35. | Goldman Sachs’s books and records relating to the Magnolia bond offering failed
to accurately reflect key aspects of the transaction, including the involvement of a third-party
intermediary.

36. Within three months of the May 2012 closing of Project Magnolia, millions of
dollars of bond proceeds were transferred through shell companies beneficially owned and
controlled by Low and other participants in the scheme into a Hong Kong bank account in the
name of shell companies incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and controlled by Leissner.
Leissner used a portion of these funds for his personal use and enjoyment. Leissner also knew that
other of the bond proceeds from Project Magnolia were transferred through shell company
accounts beneficially owned and controlled by Low and other participants in the scheme and
ultimately into accounts of shell companies beneficially owned and controlled by Abu Dhabi
government officials with influence over the transaction.
Goldman Sachs Obtains Project Maximus from IMDB

37. In May 2012, Goldman Sachs began to plan a second bond transaction, known
internally as “Project Maximus.” It was designed, in part, to raise capital for 1 MDB to purchase a
second Malaysian power generation company, Genting Berhad (“Genting”). The mandate to
underwrite this bond offering was awarded by IMDB to Goldman Sachs, and it was structured
similarly to the first bond issuance but with an indirect guarantee from the Middle Eastern
Sovereign Wealth Fund. Project Maximus ultimately closed on or about October 19, 2012, raising
approximately $1.75 billion for the designated 1MDB entity and resulting in approximately $188
million for Goldman Sachs. This was six months after the close of Project Magnolia. All told, in
these two 2012 transactions, IMDB issued a total of $3.5 billion in bonds that were underwritten
by Goldman and guaranteed by the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund.

38. Leissner and Ng understood and intended that Low and others would pay bribes
and kickbacks to influence Malaysian and Abu Dhabi officials to obtain the necessary approvals to
execute the Project Maximus bond offering. Although the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund
did not provide a direct financial guarantee of the Project Maximus bonds as it had with Project
Magnolia, it nevertheless agreed to provide an indirect guarantee. As with Project Magnolia,
Leissner and Ng continued to work with Low to acquire this business for Goldman Sachs.

39. Leissner and Ng knew that a large portion of the proceeds of Project Maximus
would be illegally diverted to themselves and others, including government officials, through shell
companies beneficially owned and controlled by Leissner and others. Leissner also knew at the
time that Najib Razak and government officials from Abu Dhabi and IMDB officials would
receive money from the proceeds of Project Maximus that passed through various shell companies
beneficially owned and controlled by himself, Low and others. Moreover, along with Low and
others, it was Leissner’s intended purpose that the payments were to flow to these government
officials to influence the officials to execute the bond transaction with Goldman Sachs. A close
relative of Najib Razak and a senior official with the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund,
among others, received some of these funds.

AO. Some of the proceeds from Project Maximus were transferred by or per Low to
Leissner in furtherance of the scheme. Thereafter, Leissner, Low and others caused some of these
funds to be transferred to the accounts of IMDB officials or relatives of such officials, or to the
accounts of shell companies beneficially owned by IMDB officials, in exchange for their
assistance in obtaining and retaining business for Goldman Sachs.

41. Goldman Sachs’s books and records relating to the Maximus bond offering failed to
accurately reflect key aspects of the transaction, including the involvement of a third-party
intermediary.

Goldman Sachs Obtains Project Catalyze from IMDB
42. In November 2012, despite having raised over $3 billion in the prior 11 months,

IMDB sought to raise an additional $3 billion through a bond issuance known internally at
Goldman Sachs as “Project Catalyze.” The stated purpose of this debt financing was to fund
IMDB’s portion of a joint venture with the Middle Eastern Investment Firm. Goldman Sachs was
engaged to underwrite the project in or around early 2013. The Project Catalyze bond offering
ultimately issued on March 19, 2013, resulting in a further approximately $186 million for
Goldman Sachs from the deal.

43. As they had with the two prior IMDB bond issuances, Leissner and other Goldman
Sachs employees continued to work on deals where Low was an intermediary between Goldman
Sachs, IMDB officials, Najib Razak and other Malaysian government officials. A portion of the
approximately $3 billion raised by Project Catalyze was transferred to Leissner by or at the
direction of Low.

44, Goldman Sachs’s books and records relating to the Catalyze bond offering failed to
accurately reflect key aspects of the transaction, including the involvement of a third-party
intermediary

Goldman Sachs Obtains Further Business from Jho Low Post-Catalyze

45. During and after the IMDB Bond Deals, Goldman Sachs pursued additional
business opportunities involving Low, such as the restructuring of an investment by the Middle
Eastern Investment Firm in a Malaysian bank with Low as “an advisor” to the Company’s client,
and Low’s acquisition of an oil company through a joint venture with a subsidiary of the Middle
Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund (“Project Condor’). These transactions involved not only Low,
but also two officials from Abu Dhabi whom Low and others had recently bribed in connection
with the Bond Deals.

46. Leissner and other Goldman Sachs employees failed to disclose Low’s involvement
in Project Condor to the firm’s Intelligence Group for approximately ten months. In October 2013,
Leissner sought internal approval for Goldman Sachs to advise Low’s business entity as a client.
Goldman Sachs Intelligence Group personnel informed Leissner that the firm could not advise
Low’s business entity. Leissner and other senior Goldman Sachs employees completed the
transaction, with Low as a minority co-investor alongside the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth
Fund subsidiary that was the Company’s client. When Project Condor ultimately closed in January
2014, the deal was structured with Low’s business entity contributing a minor percentage of the
necessary capital and the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund subsidiary responsible for the
remainder. The transaction resulted in approximately $10 million for Goldman Sachs.

Goldman Sachs’s Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Accounting Controls

47. Goldman Sachs failed to maintain a sufficient system of internal accounting
controls between 2012 and 2015 with respect to the process by which it reviewed and approved the
commitment of firm capital in large, significant and complex transactions, such as the Bond Deals.
This resulted in Goldman Sachs’s failing to reasonably assure adequate documentation of the GS
Capital Committee’s processes, including follow-up, oversight and documentation regarding due
diligence of concerns raised by the GS Capital Committee regarding the Bond Deals. Under the
Company’s policy, the GS Capital Committee was intended to serve a vital control function with
regard to significant commitments in firm capital. Goldman Sachs initiated enhancements to its
processes with respect to committee documentation in 2015.

A8. Each of the three Bond Deals was submitted to the GS Capital Committee, and as
was typical practice at the firm, the GS Capital Committee transaction review took place in stages.
The Committee’s approvals were granted conditionally, meaning that further action steps were
needed — typically by the deal team — to address open items or conduct due diligence on significant
concerns raised during the GS Committee process before approval of a given transaction would
become effective. Follow-up was required on a number of items for the Bond Deals, including the
Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund guarantee on the first Bond Deal.

49. | Goldman Sachs’s Debt Underwriting Group had responsibility for confirming that
follow-up items were completed prior to a deal closing. However, due to weaknesses in the
implementation of this control, the results of this follow-up were not documented consistent with
the GS Capital Committee providing its vital control function.

LEGAL STANDARDS AND VIOLATIONS

50. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission, after making certain
required findings, may impose a cease-and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has
violated, or is about to violate any provision of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation
thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an
act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation.

Goldman Sachs Violated Exchange Act Section 30A

51. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA, Section 30A of the Exchange Act, make it
unlawful for any issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange
Act, or any employee or agent of such issuer, to make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to
pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, gift or promise to give anything of
value to any foreign official for purposes of influencing any act or decision of such foreign official
in his official capacity in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business for or with
any person. 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1. As a result of the conduct described above regarding payments to
government officials, Goldman Sachs violated Exchange Act Section 30.

Goldman Sachs Violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A)

52. The books and records provision of the FCPA, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange
Act, requires every issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the
Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer. 15 U.S.C.
§ 78m(b)(2)(A). As described above, Goldman Sachs’s books and records did not accurately
reflect key aspects of the Bond Deals. By this conduct Goldman Sachs violated Exchange Act
Section 13(b)(2)(A).

10
Goldman Sachs Violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B)

53. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires companies with a class of
securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to devise and maintain a system of
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (1) transactions are
executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization; (11) transactions are
recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles or any other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to
maintain accountability for assets; (111) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with
management’s general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is
compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with
respect to any differences. 15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B). As described above, Goldman Sachs failed
to implement a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances
that transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific authorization
and that access to assets was permitted only in accordance with management’s general or specific
authorization. By this conduct, Goldman Sachs violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(B).

Criminal and Other Regulatory Dispositions

54. Respondent has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the Department
of Justice that acknowledges responsibility for criminal conduct relating to certain findings in the
Order.

55. Respondent has also entered into a parallel civil settlement with the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) concerning some of the
findings in the Order.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.

Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED
that:

A. Respondent Goldman Sachs cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(2)(B),
and 78dd-1];

B. Respondent Goldman Sachs shall pay to the Commission disgorgement of
$606,300,000, which shall be deemed satisfied by the payment previously made
to the Government of Malaysia and IMDB pursuant to a parallel Settlement
Agreement entered into by Goldman Sachs on August 18, 2020;

C. Respondent shall, within 21 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $400,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange

11
Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury,
subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made,
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717; and

D. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:

(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch

HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as the Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Charles Cain,
FCPA Unit Chief, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE,
Washington, DC 20549.

12
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax
purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees
that in any Related Investor Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall
it benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the
amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action
(“Penalty Offset”). Ifthe court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final
order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action
and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and
shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this
proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or
more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order
instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission,

Vanessa A. Countryman
Secretary

13
