2020-BCFP-0007 Document1 Filed 08/20/2020 Page 1 of 53

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File
No. 2020-BCFP- 0007

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

TD BANK, N.A.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
overdraft and furnishing activities of TD Bank, N.A. (Respondent, as defined
below) and has identified the following law violations: failing to obtain consumers’
affirmative consent to enroll in Respondent’s Debit Card Advance (DCA)
overdraft-protection service and subsequently charging those consumers overdraft
fees pursuant to that service, in violation of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act
(EFTA), 15 U.S.C. § 1693 et seq., and its implementing Regulation E, 12 C.F.R.

§ 1005.17(b)(1)(ii1); abusive acts or practices while offering DCA to consumers in
person, in violation of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12

U.S.C. 8§$ 5531(d)(1), 5536(a)(1)(B); deceptive acts or practices while offering

DCA to consumers in person, over the phone, and through mailed solicitations, in

1
OA PAPE Oe my _ Co ween 2 AR TRON Bere ry -~ gory
FOOL REeEE AAA? Macimant 4 Rien AS Poareyes Dapre O yt ASR
> ee de PSR CR eae oe :; ary Soe e seks : kg iat PRP wT ph “ ed ‘ *%
he LP I NE PATE Rat RoR Rg i PRENSA LR ek OA roe Me oe MSE ta

violation of the CPPA, 12 U.S.C. $8 553 1a), 3536{a)C1)(B); failing to establish
and implement reasonable written policies and procedures concerning the accuracy
and integrity of information Respondent furnished to nationwide specialty
consumer reporting agencies (NSCRAS), in violation of the Fair Credit Reporting
Act (FCRA), 15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq., and its implementing Regulation V, 12
C.F.R. § 1022.42(a) & (b); and falling to conduct timely investigations of indirect
disputes concerning NSCRA furnishing, in violation of FCRA, 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-
2(6)(2). Under $$ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $$ 5563, 5565, the
Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).
i.
Jurisdiction
1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under $$ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $8 3563 and 5565; § 918(a)(3) of EFTA, 15 ULS.C.
UL.
Stipulation
2. Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated August 14, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated
by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent

has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under
SH ORME RNY r
BCP R-O007 L

re Wah

§§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5563, 5565, without admitting
or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.
WH.
Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
a. “Affected Consumers” includes current and former customers of
Respondent who:
i. opened a consumer-checking account in person, at one of
Respondent's stores or offsite account-opening events, between
January 1, 2014, through December 31, 2018:
ui. enrolled in DCA at account-opening; and
ii. were charged non-refunded or non-waived Covered Overdrait
Fees through their enrollment in DCA at account-opening.
b. “Board” means Respondent’s duly-elected and acting Board of Directors.
c. “Consumer Reporting Agency” means any person that, for monetary
fees, dues, or on a cooperative nonprofit basis, regularly engages in
whole or in part in the practice of assembling or evaluating consumer

credit information or other information on consumers for the purpose of

Go
IAN. Pewee} oONy Peace versend f vibe MC 304 BHOr eee ot
-ROER- PAGOUMean | Filecl OS/20; } Rage < OF 5s
2 Ue ES : “Ut Ws Ra RA Ped fot He md ASRS Wag : tae UE a

furnishing consumer reports to third parties, and that uses any means or
facility of interstate commerce for the purpose of preparing or furnishing
consumer reports. 15 U.S.C. § 168fad).

“Covered Overdraft Fees” means fees assessed for paying Covered
Transactions,

“Covered Transactions” means ATM and one-time debit card
transactions that are subject to the requirements in 12 C.FLR.

§ 1005.17(b).

“DCA” means Debit Card Advance, Respondent’s discretionary
overdraft-protection service for Covered Transactions.

“Direct Dispute” means a dispute submitted directly to a Furnisher by a
consumer concerning the accuracy of any information contained in a
consumer report and pertaining to an account or other relationship that
the Furnisher has or has had with the consumer. 12 C.F.R. $8 1022.410b).
“Etfective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.
“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or

her delegate
AA PR ree me mo -. Lod ren PAR PRA ESM AT Pe ~ my
2OPORCE RB OOO? Macument 7 Fiied OR FO Of O26 Pane S of S83
he LP I NE SPAT GF a A PERS oF PRENSA LR ek OA PGA at MAE aia

“Furnisher” means an entity that furnishes information relating to
consumers to one or more Consumer Reporting Agencies for inclusion in
a consumer report. 12 C.F.R. § 1022.41(c).

“NSCRA” means, coterminous with the meaning of “nationwide
specialty consumer reporting agency” defined in FCRA, 15 ULS.C,

$ 168latx), a Consumer Reporting Agency that compiles and maintains
files on consumers on a nationwide basis relating to (1) medical records
or payments; (2) residential or tenant history; (3) check wriling history;
(4) employment history; or (5) insurance claims.

“Overdraft Fee Period” means the time period beginning when an
Affected Consumer incurred a Covered Overdraft Fee and ending at the
earlier of (1) the Affected Consumer restoring his or her consumer-
checking account to a zero or positive balance or (2) the closure of the
Affected Consumer’s account.

. “Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the Northeast
Region for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, or his or her delegate.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of

one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another

aa
Ne PEEP Oe ~ 4 mene ae moms ~
SOOO REED NAN? Mactimant 1 Pitan ASP IOsaneny Dana A oat ASS
whe Ne Aref BaP RARE ERS GG P REAL Lek ee eo ts Ss Sah ae nt ht

governmental agency brought against Respondent based on substantially
the same facts as described in Section [V of this Consent Order.
“Relevant Period” includes from January 1, 2014 to the Effective Date.
“Respondent” means TD Bank, N.A., and its successors and assigns.
“Redress Fees” means all Covered Overdraft Fees Respondent charged
Affected Consumers until the earlier of the Affected Consumer’s first
unenrollment Gf applicable) from DCA or the end of the Affected
Consumer’s Redress Period, excluding Covered Overdraft Fees
Respondent watved or refunded for the Affected Consumer prior to the
Effective Date.
“Redress Period” means:
i. tor Affected Consumers (1) who unenrolled from DCA at any
time, or who stopped using DCA after their first Overdratt Fee
Period, and (2) who incurred their first Covered Overdraft Fee

between January 1, 2014 and April 1, 2016, the longer of the

the Affected Consumer’s first Covered Overdrait Fee:
ui. for Affected Consumers (1) who unenrolled from DCA at any
time, or who stopped using DCA after their first Overdraft Fee

Period, and (2) who incurred their first Covered Overdraft Fee
AAA PPP AA om . 4 et EEA IN mo “
2OPORCE RB OOO? Macument 7 Fiied OR FO Of O26 Pane - of S38
he LP I NE SPAT GF a A PERS oF PRP NGG LK a a : te Sat Rta

after April 1, 2016, the longer of the Affected Consumer’s first
Overdraft Fee Period or seven days trom the Affected Consumer’s
first Covered Overdraft Fee;
in. tor Affected Consumers who experienced multiple Overdraft Fee
Periods and who never unenrolled from DCA, the longer of the
Affected Consumer's first Overdraft Fee Period or one day from
the Affected Consumer’s first Covered Overdratt Fee.
iV,
Bureau Findings and Conclusions
The Bureau finds the following:
Respondent is a national bank headquartered in Cherry Hill, New Jersey. As
of March 31, 2020, Respondent had about $355 billion in total assets.
Respondent is an insured depository institution with assets greater than $10
bullion within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. $ 35 1S{a).
Respondent is a “covered person” under 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6) because it
“engages in offering or providing a consumer financial product or service,”
including by: (1) engaging in deposit-taking activities for use by consumers
primarily for personal, family, or household purposes; (2) offering an

overdraft service for Covered Transactions; and (3) furnishing in connection
8.

2,

10,

AAPA PARP RS CR mee m~ Co wee > AR IRA RRA my ~ a
SOOO REED NAN? Mactimant 1 Pitan ASP IOsaneny Dana Boat AS
ae We Pe Sed fF a KADER LF POPPA Lek a ea PCAs Mt nt

with that deposit-taking activity. 12 U.S.C. § 3481(6)(A), (IS KA)GV), &
(ES )(AJGX).

Respondent is also a “financial institution” under EFTA and Regulation E
because it is a national bank holding consumer-deposit accounts. 15 U.S.C.
§ 1693a(9).

Respondent is also a Furnisher under FCRA and Regulation V because it
“furnishes information relating to consumers to one or more consumer
reporting agencies for inclusion in a consumer report.” 12 C.PLR.

§ 1022.4 1(c).

Throughout the Relevant Period, Respondent has offered consumers three
overdratt options in connection with their consumer-checking accounts: (1) a
“standard” overdrali service, which covers transactions not subject to 12
C.F.R. § 1005.17(b), including checks, automated clearing house (ACH),
and recurring debit-card transactions; (2) DCA, which covers Covered
Transactions: and (3) a “decline all” option, which opts the customer out of
overdraft services for all transaction types.

New customers may enroll in DCA when opening a consumer-checking
account online or at one of Respondent’s branches (stores). Existing
checking-account customers may enroll a new or existing checking account

in DCA at one of Respondent’s stores, online, or over the phone.
2,

14,

AAPA PARP RS CR mee ~ Co wee DOAN IRA BRAS ry ~ a“
PO?PO-BOER.G007 Document 7 Bifen O8/2O/202O Page G of S38
ae We Pe Sed fF a KADER LF POPPA Lek a ea : mr ot nt td

Respondent charges consumers who have enrolled in DCA a $35 overdraft
fee to pay, up to five times per day and at Respondent’s discretion, each
Covered Transaction that exceeds a consumer’s checking account available
balance (which accounts for pending debit transactions) by more than $5.
Respondent's consumer-checking accounts come with its “standard”
overdraft service, through which Respondent charges consumers a $35
overdraft fee to pay, at Respondent’s discretion, all other transactions (e.g.,
checks, ACH, and recurring debits) that exceed a consumer’s checking
account available balance by more than $5.

Consumers who have enrolled in DCA receive overdraft coverage on
transactions not subject to 12 C.F.R. § 1005.17(b) through Respondent’s
“standard” overdrali service, not through their enroliment in DCA.

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s DCA Enrollment
Process in Respondent’s Stores in Violation of LFTA and Regulation E

Under Respondent’s store enrollment procedures, Respondent’s store
employees orally present DCA to new customers who are opening
consumer-checking accounts and request those new customers to orally
indicate whether they want to enroll following that presentation.
Respondent’s store employees then document the new customer's oral

enrollment preference in Respondent’s account-opening computer system.
16.

U7.

18.

19,

Under Respondent’s store enrollment procedures, Respondent’s store
employees do not print and present new customers with a written overdraft
notice (DCA Form) until the end of the account-opening process.

The printed DCA Form that Respondent’s store employces present to new
customers is pre-marked with a checked box to reflect the customer’s oral
enrollment preference from earlier in the account-opening process.
Respondent’s employees print the Form with the “Enrolled in TD Debit
Card Advance” option selected for consumers who stated they want DCA.
Respondent prints the Form with the “Not Enrolled tn TD Debit Card
Advance” option selected for consumers who stated they did not want DCA.
Under Respondent’s store procedures, through December 31, 2018, new
customers did not receive written disclosures about Respondent’s overdraft
services before receiving the DCA Form at the end of the account-opening
process.

Respondent’s store employees present this DCA Form together with
Respondent’s account-opening authorization form. New customers must
sign both forms to complete the account-opening process.

The DCA Form and account-opening authorization form are pre-filled by
Respondent’s computer system with all relevant customer and account

information.
20.

21.

22,

NO?
i)

24,

Since January 27, 2014, it has been Respondent’s policy that a new customer
must sign both a DCA Form indicating whether the customer is enrolling
and an account-opening authorization form in order to open a consumer-
checking account regardless of whether the customer enrolls in DCA.

Under Regulation E, a financial institution may not charge Covered
Overdraft Fees untess it first “[o]btains the consumer’s affirmative consent,
or opt-in, to the institution’s payment of ATM or one-time debit card
transactions.” 12 C.F.R. 8 1005.17(b) 1).

A financial institution must provide a consumer with the written (or, if the
consumer agrees, electronic) notice required by 12 CLFLR. § 1005.17(b)( DG)
before it can obtain that consumer’s affirmative consent as required by 12
C.F.R. 8 1005.17(bC Gi».

As described in paragraphs 14-18 above, through December 31, 2018,
Respondent requested that new customers orally provide their DCA
enrollment preference before providing them with written notice describing
the DCA service.

Respondent does not obtain a new customer’s affirmative consent to enroll
in DCA through the customer’s oral enrollment preference when Respondent
obtains that oral decision before providing the customer the written notice

required by 12 C.FLR. § 1003.17()C)G).

i]
26.

28.

be
=

30.

SAW Seem Ann “ 4 Poe SAS “5 + my
ebb ao whb ag AUN oh ha SAPS Gis? tay Reet OREN oe ae
eA eT SAR Ff Ae Lene Q VO OU Ur Q me LH

Under Respondent’s store procedures, Respondent prints the DCA Form
with a pre-checked box indicating the new customer's DCA enrollment
decision and presents that Form to the new customer at the end of the
account-opening process.

By the time Respondent provides new customers with a single DCA Form
for their signature in Respondent’s stores, the DCA Form is already marked
with their enrollment preference.

[f new customers who previously indicated that they wished to enroll want
io amend their enroliment preference after receiving the printed DCA Form,
they must affirmatively seek a different version of the DCA Form without
their previous enroliment preference pre-marked.,

Respondent does not obtain a new customer’s affirmative consent to enroll
in DCA through the customer’s signature on a DCA Form that is already
marked with the customer's enrollment preference and that all new
customers are required to sign to open a consumer-checking account.
During the Relevant Period, Respondent charged approximately 1.42 milhon
Affected Consumers Covered Overdraft Fees.

As a result, Respondent charged Covered Overdraft Fees without obtaining
consumers’ affirmative consent to enroll in DCA, in violation of EFTA, 15

U.S.C. § 1693 et seq., and Regulation E, 12 C.P.R. § 1005.1 7(b)C1 Ma).

12
31.

33.

{a2
Ls}

Findings and Conclusions as te KRespondent’s DCA Enrollment Process at
Offsite Account-Opening Events in Violation of EF TA and Regulation

Respondent’s employees also open consumer-checking accounts at events
held outside of Respondent's stores, including at local colleges or
businesses.

For these offsite account-opening events, Respondent uses a different
account-opening authorization form that consumers must sign to open a new
checking account.

Respondent’s offsite account-opening authorization form features a box to
check to enroll in DCA, along with additional customer-information fields
and certain terms and conditions for Respondent’s checking accounts. This
form does not disclose any information regarding DCA.

For offsite account-opening events, Respondent's employees are also
required to bring DCA Forms for all new customers to sign.

But before early 2015, Respondent’s employees often did not bring the DCA
Form to offsite account-opening events.

Even after early 2015, Respondent’s employees in some cases still failed to
bring the DCA Form to offsite account-opening events.

When Respondent’s employees failed to bring the DCA Form to offsite
account-opening events, Respondent still opened consumer-checking

accounts and enrolled new customers in DCA following those events.

i3
40.

Al,

AO RCE ROA? Pinarcioyant 4 SHad F@s/oyenan Sana ¢4 af RR
Sao Te Lat MAA F BA AEN Pa POPS ASQ coke oe : CAG Ne PAP LY re

When Respondent’s employees failed to bring the DCA Form to offsite
account-opening events, Respondent obtained consumers’ DCA enrollment
decisions without providing customers with the DCA Form for their
signature and before providing them with any written disclosure describing
DCA.

In early 2015, Respondent instructed employees at offsite account-opening
events to elicit an oral enrollment preference from a new customer and then
to fill out the DCA Form on behalf of the new customer-——including marking
the new customer's DCA enroliment preference—betore later providing the
customer the DCA Form for their signature.

Following offsite account-opening events, Respondent’s employees use the
consumer information captured in the offsite account-opening form and
DCA Form to open new checking accounts for the new customers who
attended those events.

Under Regulation E, a financial institution may not charge Covered
Overdratt Fees unless it first “[o[btains the consumer’s affirmative consent,

or opt-in, to the institution’s payment of ATM or one-time debit card
42.

44.

45.

46,

A financial institution must provide a consumer with the notice required by
12 C.FLR. § 1005.17(b)(1)G) before it can obtain that consumer’s affirmative
consent as required by 12 C.PF.R. $ 1005.170b)C1 Ga).

Respondent instructed its employees to fill out DCA Forms on behalf of new
customers at offsite account-opening events—including marking a new
customer’s oral DCA enroliment preference—betore presenting the DCA
Form to new customers for their signature.

Respondent does not obtain a new customer’s affirmative consent to enroll
in DCA through the customer’s oral enrollment preference, because
Respondent does not provide the customer the written notice required by 12
C.F.R. 8 1005.17(>) 1G) before obtaining that oral decision.

Respondent directed its employees to complete the DCA Form with the
customer’s information and selected enrollment option. This meant that by
the time Respondent's emplovees presented new customers with a DCA
Form for their signature at offsite account-opening events, that DCA Form
had been marked with their enrollment preference.

Respondent does not obtain a new customer’s affirmative consent to enroll
in DCA through the customer’s signature on a DCA Form that is already
marked with the customer’s enrollment preference and that all new

customers are required to sign to open a consumer-checking account.

is
AT.

48.

49,

50.

St.

ff
sf ok de

Respondent’s employees also failed to bring DCA Forms to offsite account-
opening events to present to new customers for their signature, but still
enrolled customers in DCA at these events.

When Respondent’s employees failed to bring DCA Forms to offsite
account-opening events, they obtained new customers’ DCA enrollment
decisions without providing them with Respondent’s DCA Form for their
signature and before providing them with any other written disclosure
describing DCA.

Respondent charged new customers who enrolled in DCA at offsite account-
opening events Covered Overdraft Fees.

As aresult, Respondent charged Covered Overdraft Fees without obtaining
these consumers’ affirmative consent to enroll in DCA, in violation of
EFTA, 15 U.S.C. 1693 et seq., and Regulation E, 12 C.FLR. §

1005.17(b\( Dil).

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s Abusive Acts or Practices
During the DCA Enrolbment Process in Respondent’s Stores and at Offsite

Account-Opening Events
Under Respondent’s account-opening procedures, Respondent's employees
request that new customers orally indicate whether they want to enroll in
DCA, based upon the employee’s oral presentation of the service, before

providing customers with the DCA Form.

16
52.

53.

ray
ae

Respondent did not create a script for store employees to use to present DCA
to new customers before requesting their oral enrollment decision.
Respondent's managers created their own talking points and scripts tor
Respondent's employees to use to explain DCA to new checking-account
customers in the stores they supervised.

Respondent’s managers instructed employees, for their oral presentation of
DCA to new customers, to: (1) present DCA as a “free” service or benefit,
while downplaying the tees and disclosures associated with the service; and
(2) frame DCA as a “feature” or “package” that “comes with” all new
consumer-checking accounts, rather than as an option that new customers
must opt in to.

In fact, (1) DCA is not a “free” service or benefit; and (2) DCA is not a
“feature” of Respondent’s checking accounts and does not “come with” all
new consumer-checking accounts.

In some cases during the store and offsite account-opening process,
Respondent also represented, expressly or by implication, that: (1) enrolling
in DCA would allow Respondent to pay transactions-—including a morigage
or light bill-—likely already covered by Respondent's standard overdraft
service; and (2) enroliment in DCA is a default setting required to open a

new consumer-checking account.
57.

60.

GL.

62.

ff
sf ok de

In fact, (1) DCA pays Covered Transactions only, while remaining
transactions are covered by Respondent’s standard overdraft service; and (2)
Respondent does not offer a consumer-checking account for which
enrollment in DCA is required.

Under Respondent’s procedures, Respondent’s employees do not provide
new customers with a DCA Form for their signature until the end of the
account-opening process.

The DCA Form that Respondent’s employees present to new customers in
Respondent’s stores and at offsite account-opening events features a pre-
checked box reflecting the customer’s oral enroliment preference from
earlier in the account-opening process.

Respondent’s employees do not print and present new customers with a
DCA Form for their signature until the end of the account-opening process.
The DCA Form that Respondent’s employees present to new customers In
stores and at offsite account-opening events features a pre-checked box
reflecting the customer’s oral DCA enrollment preference from earlier in the
account-opening process.

Respondent’s employees have also failed to bring DCA Forms to offsite
64,

65.

66.

Through a misleading or incomplete oral presentation of the DCA service
for the purpose of eliciting an oral-enrollment decision, and then by not
providing new customers with the pre-marked DCA Form until the end of
the account-opening process, or not providing the DCA Form at all,
Respondent materially interfered with consumers’ ability to understand the
terms and conditions of DCA.

In certain instances, Respondent’s employees further materially mtertered
with consumers’ ability to understand the terms and conditions of DCA by:
requiring new customers to sign DCA Forms with the “enrolled” option pre-
checked without mentioning the DCA service at ail; enrolling new
customers in DCA without requesting the customer’s oral enroliment
decision; and deliberately obscuring, or attempting to obscure, the DCA
Form to prevent a new customer's review of their pre-marked “enrolled”
Status.

Section LO36(a\1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits abusive acts or practices. 12
ULS.C. 8 3536(a\ 1B).

An act or practice is abusive under the CFPA if it, among other things,
“materially interferes with the ability of a consumer to understand a term or
condition of a consumer financial product or service.” 12 U.S.C,

§ 5531(d\(1).
67.

Respondent’s conduct constitutes abusive acts or practices in violation of the

CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(d)(1), 5536(a\ 1 1B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s Deceptive Acts or Practices

During the DCA Enrollment Process in Respondent’s Stores and at Offsite

68.

69.

70,

7.

Account-Opening Process
Section 1036(a\(1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits deceptive acts or practices. 12
ULS.C. 8 3536(a)C1 (8).
As described in Paragraph 54, in connection with the marketing, promoting,
offering for sale, or sale of DCA, in numerous instances, Respondent
represented, expressly or tmpliedly, that: (1) DCA is a “tree” service or
benefit; and (2) DCA ts a “feature” or “package” that “comes with” all new
consumer-checking accounts.
In fact, (1) DCA is not a “free” service or benefit; and (2) DCA is not a
“feature” of Respondent’s checking accounts and does not “come with” all
new consumer-checking accounts.
Further, as described in Paragraph 56, in connection with the marketing,
promoting, offering for sale, or sale of DCA, Respondent represented,
expressly or impliedly, that: (1) enrolling in DCA would allow Respondent
to pay transactions—including a mortgage or light bill—likely already
covered by Respondent’s standard overdraft service; and (2) enrollment in

DCA is a default setting required to open a new consumer-checking account.

20
74.

70,

In fact, (1) DCA pays Covered Transactions only, while remaining
transactions are covered by Respondent’s standard overdraft service; and (2)
Respondent does not offer a consumer-checking account for which
enrollment in DCA ts required. A consumer-checking account does not
include DCA unless a consumer chooses to enroll in DCA.

Thus, Respondent’s representations, as described in Paragraphs 69 and 71
constitute deceptive acts or practices in violation of sections 103 1(a) and

1036(a)(1)\(B) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 88 5531 (a), 5536(a)C1)(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s Deceptive Acts or Practices

When Presenting DCA to Existing Customers by Phone
Respondent permits consumers who have a checking account with
Respondent to enroll a new or existing checking account in DCA over the
phone.

For existing checking-account customers enrolling in DCA over the phone,
Respondent requires its employees to read (or play an automated version of)
a scripted disclosure regarding overdraft fees and the transactions covered
by DCA when obtaining a consumer’s enrollment decision.

During phone enroliments, tn certain instances, Respondent’s employees
represented that DCA covers check transactions, mortgage payments, car
payments, utility bills, and other recurring-bill payments, rather than only

Covered Transactions.

Zt
Vi.

78.

79,

80.

SE,

AA PE, Ame ~ . A puss SP NS eee on a ~ y
SOOO BRE RAN? Miners t fF Pia FR Poy Aagny Dineen BO at BO
fn at hn Bat Rat Ae WA me ALE PAE RR POPPA Ae eo ee » OSA MS Ne Gan Wd

But enroliment in DCA is not required to cover check transactions, utility
bills, or other recurring bull payments. Respondent’s standard overdraft
service covers those transactions.

On other calls, Respondent’s phone employees stated that DCA takes effect
on the date of enrollment, including to a consumer who wished to use the
service immediately, and implied that enrolling in DCA would allow
customers to exceed Respondent’s daily ATM withdrawal limit of $750
while incurring only one Covered Overdratt Fee.

But DCA takes effect the next business day following enrollment. And
enrollment does not allow a consumer to exceed Respondent’s daily $750
ATM withdrawal limit. Consumers enrolled in DCA are still subject to
Respondent’s $750 ATM withdrawal limit, and would incur multiple
Covered Overdratt Fees if withdrawing more than that amount.

Section 1036(a\1)(B) of the CFPA prohibits deceptive acts or practices. 12
ULS.C. 8 3536(a)C1 (8).

As described in Paragraph 76, in connection with the marketing, promoting,
offering for sale, or sale of DCA, in certain instances, Respondent has
represented, expressly or impliedly, that DCA covers check transactions,
mortgage payments, car payments, utility bills, and other recurring-~bill

payments.

22
82.

84.

SO
Fi

56.

In fact, Respondent’s standard overdraft service covers those transactions.
DCA enrollment is only required for Respondent to pay Covered
Transactions.

As described in Paragraph 78, in connection with the marketing, promoting,
offering for sale, or sale of DCA, in certain instances, Respondent has
represented, expressly or impliedly, that: (1) DCA takes effect the date of
enrollment, and (2) enrolling in DCA would allow customers to exceed
Respondent’s daily ATM withdrawal limit of $750 while incurring only one
Covered Overdraft Fee.

In fact, (1) DCA takes effect the next business day following enroliment,
and (2) consumers would incur multiple Covered Overdraft Fees if
withdrawing more than Respondent’s $750 ATM withdrawal limit.

Thus, Respondent’s representations, as described in Paragraphs 81 and 83,
constitute deceptive acts or practices in violation of $$ LO31(a) and

1036(a}\(1)(B) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531 (a), 5536(a)C\(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s Deceptive Acts or Practices

When Marketing DCA to Existing Customers by Mail
Until April 2016, Respondent used targeted mail marketing to solictt
existing customers who had previously declined to enroll in DCA and who
recently had a check returned for insufficient funds or a debit card that was

declined.
87.

8S.

59.

90.

91,

AN PAE ANAS ~ Lo omy ON TN Ee o ~~ ~~
POO ORCE BLOG? Raciumeant 7 Filed O8/20/2020 Page 24 of 538
me AS a SR WA me ALE REET POA QAM a a PCAN ao a id

In those marketing mailers, Respondent advertised DCA as “allowling]”
Respondent “to cover all types of transactions, including ATM, one-time
debil card transactions, checks, automatic bill payments, online banking
transfers, and payments through bill pay, at our discretion.”

Consumers who enroll in DCA receive coverage on checks, automatic bill
payments, online banking transfers, or payments through bill pay through
Respondent’s standard overdralt service, not through their enrollment in
DCA,

In the same marketing mailer, Respondent described its standard overdraft
service as covering “|cjhecks and recurring items only” and as covering
“checks and recurring payments, such as mortgage payments or monthly
utility bills}...

Transactions such as “online banking transfers” and “payments through bill
pay.” which Respondent presented as being “coverjed]? by DCA but not
Respondent's standard overdratt service, are in fact covered by
Respondent’s standard overdralt service.

Respondent’s description of its standard overdraft service in its marketing
matier did not list transactions such as “online banking transfers” and

“payments through bill pay.”

24
92.

94.

95.

Section 1036(a)(1)CB) of the CFPA prohibits deceptive acts or practices. 12
U.S.C. § $536(a)(1)(B).

As described in Paragraph 87, in connection with the advertising, marketing,
promoting, offering for sale, or sale of DCA, in numerous instances
Respondent has represented, expressly or impliedly, that DCA covers
checks, automatic bill payments, online banking transfers, and payments
through bill pay.

In fact, enrollment in DCA is required to cover Covered Transactions only.
Thus, Respondent's representations, as described in Paragraph 93, constitute
deceptive acts or practices in violation of $$ 1031(a) and 1036(a)(1)(B) of

the CFPA, 12 ULS.C. 88 553 1a), 5536(a)( 1B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s NSCRA Furnishing Practices in

96,

97.

Violation of Regulation V and FCRA
Throughout the Relevant Period Respondent has furnished consumer-
deposit-account information to two NSCRAs.
Respondent did not establish and implement policies or procedures
concerning the accuracy and integrity of the information tt furnished to those
two NSCRAs until it implemented a furnishing policy relating to one of the

NSCRAs in July 2016.
OS.

OF,

100.

LOL.

102.

Respondent also failed to implement policies or procedures for handling
NSCRA furnishing disputes until it implemented a policy relating to one of
the NSCRAs in August 2016.

Respondent did not implement a policy or procedure for investigating
disputes relating to furnishing information to the second NSCRA until April
2017.

Before at least June 2016, Respondent instructed consumers who called to
dispute information Respondent had furnished to at least one NSCRA to
contact the NSCRA, rather than to submit a Direct Dispute to Respondent.
Section 1022.42(a) of Regulation V, the implementing regulation of FCRA,
15 U.S.C. § 1681, et seq., requires a Furnisher to establish and implement
reasonable written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and
integrity of the consumer information that it furnishes to a Consumer
Reporting Agency, and further provides that the policies and procedures
must be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of each
Furnisher’s activities. 12 C.P.R. § 1022.42(a).

Through at least mid-2016, given the size, complexity, and scope of
Respondent’s furnishing activities, Respondent failed to establish or

implement reasonable written policies and procedures regarding the

26
103.

104,

aT: mae SOA t SP % ae ey
~ yor ae ~ man yy % aE ca 4 Pilar 3 AN Dae > si =
fan Sat athe RP Rd AN tae At A bane a Ae NS what AA a Ne ae Nas wh te

accuracy and integrity of the consumer information that it furnished to
NSCRAs, in violation of Regulation V. 12 C.PLR. § 1022.42(a).

Section 1022.42(b) of Regulation V requires that Furnishers consider
guidelines in Appendix E of the Furnisher Rule in developing appropriate
policies and procedures, and incorporate them where appropriate. 12 C.F.R.
§ 1022.42(b).

Appendix E of the Furnisher Rule includes guidelines for furnishing policies

and procedures that are reasonably designed to promote, among other things:

verifying random samples of information provided to consumer-reporting
agencies; conducting a periodic evaluation of a Furnisher’s own practices,
investigations of disputed information, and corrections of inaccurate
information; and maintaining records for a reasonable period in order to
substantiate the accuracy of any information about consumers it furnishes
that is subject to a Direct Dispute. Appendix FE to 12 C.F UR. Part 1022.
Through at least mid-2016, Respondent also failed to incorporate certain
elements in Appendix E, as appropriate, in its policies and procedures
governing NSCRA furnishing, in violation of Regulation V. 12 C.FLR.

§ 1022.42(b).

27
107,

108.

109.

110.

During the Relevant Period, in certain cases, Respondent also failed to
complete its investigations, reviews, and reports, including reporting the
results of its investigation to an NSCRA, stemming from indirect disputes
concerning consumer information Respondent had furnished to one NSCRA
within 30 days or 45 days.

Respondent is unable to provide evidence of timely investigations of the vast
majority of indirect disputes concerning NSCRA furnishing that it received
prior to mid-2016.

After mid-2016, Respondent failed to investigate some indirect disputes
concerning information Respondent had furnished to one NSCRA within 30
days.

Section 623(b)(2) of FCRA requires a Furnisher to complete ail
investigations, reviews, and reports, including reporting the results of its
investigations to Consumer Reporting Agencies, stemming from an indirect
dispute concerning the completeness or accuracy of information furnished to
a Consumer Reporting Agency within 30 days. 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(b)(Q).
The 30-day period may be extended for up to 15 additional days if the
Consumer Reporting Agency receives information from the consumer
during that 30-day period that is relevant to the reinvestigation. 15 U.S.C.

§ 1681s-2(b)(2); see alsa id. § 1681i(a)y(1(B}.

28
Lil.

apy
Meigs ie

Because Respondent failed to complete its investigations of indirect disputes
concerning information Respondent had furnished to an NSCRA within 30,
or when applicable, 45 days, Respondent violated § 623(b)(2) of the FCRA,
15 ULS.C. § 1681s-2(b)(2).
CONDUCT PROVISIONS
Vv.

TT US ORDERED, under $$ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:
Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
tacireetly, may not violate Regulation E, 12 CLFLR. § 1005.17¢b)(1), and the
CEPA, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 353 1(a) & (d)C1), 5536(a)C1 (B), as follows, and must
take the following affirmative actions:

a. In order to charge Covered Overdraft Fees at any time beginning
{2 months from the Effective Date to any consumer who has
remained enrolied in DCA since opening their consumer-checking
accounl in person, at one of Respondent’s stores or offsite account-
opening events, between January 1, 2014 through December 31,
2018, but has not yet incurred a Covered Overdraft Fee,
Respondent must first obtain a new enroliment decision from those

consumers in a manner that is consistent with the following:

29
il.

without using a notice with a pre-marked “Enrolled in TD
Debit Card Advance” option, and in a manner that 1s
otherwise consistent with 12 C.F.R. § 1005.17(b)( Tai) and
Gil; and

when requesting a new enrollment decision from these
Affected Consumers, Respondent must disclose, at a
minimum, that: DCA covers Covered Transactions only;
Respondent’s standard overdrait service covers, at
Respondent’s discretion, remaining transactions such as
checks, ACH, bill-pay, and recurring-debits; Respondent’s
overdraft services charge consumers $35 for each
transaction that overdraws a consumer’s available balance
(which includes pending transactions) by more than $5, up
to five times a day; and consumers have the option of
enrolling in DCA, keeping Respondent’s standard overdratt

service only, or declining all overdraft services.

b. Within the timeframe set forth in the Compliance Plan (defined in

Section VI below), Respondent must send a letter, by United States

Postal Service first-class mail, address-correction service

requested, to Affected Consumers who have maintained a checking

30
ch.

account with Respondent and who have remained enrolled in DCA
since opening their consumer-checking account at one of
Respondent’s stores or offsite account-opening events between
January 1, 2014 and December 31, 2018, that includes the
following information: (1) the consumer's DCA enrollment status;
(2) the transactions and fees associated with DCA coverage; and
(3) detailed instructions on how to unenroll from DCA (Opt-In
Status Letter). In the case of consumers who have elected to
receive electronic communications trom Respondent and for whom
Respondent has current contact information, Respondent may send
an electronic version of the Opt-In Status Letter. Respondent must
submit the Opt-In Status Letter for review as part of the
Compliance Plan.

Within the timeframe set forth in the Compliance Plan, Respondent
must ensure that its practices do not include pre-marking the
“Enrolled” option on Respondent’s written overdrait notice betore
requesting the customer’s signature on that notice.

Respondent must ensure that tts practices do not include any of the

following:

3]
il.

requesting that new customers provide their DCA
enrollment decision before receiving Respondent’s written
overdraft notice: and

charging Covered Overdraft Fees, at any time beginning 12
months from the Effective Date, to consumers who have
remained enrolied in DCA since opening their consumer-
checking account between January 1, 2014 through
December 31, 2018 but have not been charged a Covered
Overdraft Fee, without first obtaining a new enrollment
decision from the consumer (e.g., i person, online, or

through a mailing or phone call in a manner consistent with

e. Respondent, and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and

attorneys who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether

acting directly or indirectly, in connection with offering or

advertising DCA, may nol misrepresent, or assist others in

misrepresenting, expressly or impliedly:

that DCA is free, a free benefit, or without cost;
that DCA comes with Respondent’s consumer-checking

accounts, rather than an option that consumers must opt into;

32
om pay . Ae le me ox a oN
PPO ORE “Ee Saray Wye Phevesirpvcant 4 Siac Yai PIP HeN Piney “2 3 ot Bey 4
Sao Te tt AL BA AEN Pa POPS ASQ coke oe » OSA MS Me wer Ge

ii. which transactions DCA covers; or

tv. any other fact material to consumers concerning DCA, such
as total costs or any material restrictions, limitations, or
conditions.

113. Respondent, and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate Regulation V, 12 C.F.R. § 1022.42, and FCRA,
15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(b), and in connection with its NSCRA furnishing
activities, must take the following affirmative actions:

a. Respondent must establish and implement reasonable written
policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the
information relating to consumer deposit accounts that it furnishes
to NSCRAs appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope
of its furnishing activities: in doing so, Respondent must consider
the guidelines in Appendix E to 12 C.FLR. Part 1022 and
incorporate them where appropriate, and review and periodically
update the policies and procedures as necessary to ensure their
continued effectiveness: and

b. Respondent must timely report to consumers the results of its

pavestigations of Direct Disputes and indirect disputes filed by

33
5s
BS

AN — og gua y some oe on ms
SOOO BE RASS eee meee b fF San AS fegreaan Bian Rd sf BR
nN te PS WIA, BASLE EGA EF POPPERS VA Oka Ue PoCALe PU

consumers concerning the consumer-deposit-account information
Respondent has furnished to NSCRAs.
Vi
Complance Plan
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

114. Within 60 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
offering and marketing of its overdralt protection services and Respondent’s
NSCRA furnishing practices comply with all applicable Federal consumer
financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent Order;
and
b. specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

15. The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. [f the

Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,

34
Lio.

Li?,

118.

soe 5s
eo Ty NT by ng
2 ae 8

ARAM RUA AMA Py nt A Oe AFAR IA AAR mo
POO EE BAAS Pieacmiyrent 4 Pia FR Poy Aagny Dees
: PEQAGE Gk og PoP! AS y CALS

Aa

eb yal .
nat LN SAA ot Lh Q VAM OL cea Q JS wit

Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Regional Director within 30 days.
After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
VIL

Role of the Board
iT iS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The Board or a relevant committee thereof must review all submissions
CGncluding plans, reports, programs, policies, and procedures) required by
this Consent Order prior to submission to the Bureau.
Although this Consent Order requires Respondent to submit certain
documents for the review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the
Board will have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound
management of Respondent and for ensuring that Respondent complies with
the laws that the Bureau enforces, including Federal consumer financial laws

and this Consent Order.
119,

120.

me ERS
ee RR wf BR
nd

AAA RRR AMAT Pees ee mt Oe AFAR IA AAR oe
POOL RE DLA? Paciiyent 4 Sila GRP Giese aes ; ;
oh bk : : SAN LP GP it

In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure

adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondent, the Board or a

relevant committee thereof must:

a. Authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondent to fully comply
with the Consent Order;

b. Require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of
compliance obligations; and

Require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any material

&

non-compliance with any failures to comply with Board directives related
to this Section.
MONETARY PROVISIONS
VIEL.
Order to Pay Redress

iT 1S FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must reserve or deposit
into a segregated deposit account $97 million, as restitution, for the purpose
of providing redress to Affected Consumers as required by this Section.
Within 60 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive written

plan for providing redress consistent with this Consent Order (Redress Plan).

36
Po
~~

The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If the
Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Redress Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Redress Plan to the
Regional Director within 30 days. After receiving notification that the
Regional Director has made a determination of non-objection to the Redress
Plan, Respondent must implement and adhere to the steps,
recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Redress Plan.
The Redress Plan must:

a. Provide a mechanism to pay $97 million to Affected Consumers in total,
reflecting all Redress Fees, and to ensure that each Affected Consumer
receives the amount of Redress Fees that they paid:

b. Specify how Respondent will identify Affected Consumers and
determine the amount of Redress Fees incurred and paid by each
Affected Consumer;

c. Include the form letter or (in the case of a consumer who has elected to
receive electronic communications trom Respondent and for whom
Respondent has current contact information) electronic communication to
be sent notifying Affected Consumers of their redress (Redress

Notification), which must include language explaining how the amount

37
124.

MAN SAP ANAY PN oe a ht AIA fae ms. A ES
POS OBOE BLOG? Pocument 7 Pilad G8 f/eoreasa Pane Sk of &8
Ba At atl a MRS Re E tat MAA F ee Ke ER Rd POPPA A ee ee SOCAN WR rt

of redress was calculated and a statement that redress is being provided in
accordance with the terms of the Consent Order; and

d. Include the form of the envelope that will contain the Redress
Notification.

Respondent must not include in any envelope containing a Redress

Notification any materials other than the approved Redress Notification and

redress checks, unless Respondent has obtained written confirmation from

the Regional Director that the Bureau does not object to the inclusion of
such additional materials.

The Redress Plan must describe the process for providing redress for all

Affected Consumers under the terms of this Order, and must include the

following:

a. For Affected Consumers who maintain a checking account with
Respondent and whose account has been affected by the practices
described in this Order, Respondent must send a Redress Notification and
either (1) mail a bank check or (2) issue an account credit:

b. Respondent must mail a Redress Notilication and mail a bank check to
each Affected Consumer who no longer maintains a checking account
with Respondent affected by the practices described in this Order, except

that, if an Affected Consumer’s checking account was closed with an

38
Am ae a oe OA EA ~~ — -m
SOO BOER LAGAS “ee yam tof Pia FR Poy Aagny Bian RO af BR
hon Nad athe ad Ra &. Wey PASSE EERE ER OF SOPINSAS AAO cM OU. Po CALS wa GP i

outstanding negative balance, Respondent must reduce the amount of that
negative balance by the amount of redress due, and must mail a bank
check only to the extent that the redress due exceeds the Affected
Consumer’s outstanding negative balance;

Respondent must send the bank check and any mailed Redress
Notification by United States Postal Service first-class mail, address-
correction service requested, to each Affected Consumer’s last known
address as maintained by Respondent’s records. For Affected Consumers
who no longer maintain a checking account with Respondent affected by
the practices described in this Order, Respondent must first make
reasonable attempts to obtain a current address through the National
Change Address System before sending the bank check and Redress
Notification to those Affected Consumers’ last known address:

. For any Affected Consumer who maintains with Respondent a checking
account affected by the practices described tn this Order and whase
Redress Notification and/or redress check is returned for any reason,
Respondent must make reasonable attempts to obtain their current
address using the National Change of Address System, and must
promptly re-mail all returned Redress Notifications and redress checks to

current addresses, if any; and

39
125.

127,

e. Processes for handing any funds that remain unclaimed for a reasonable
period.
After completing the Redress Plan, if the amount of restitution provided to
Affected Consumers is less than $97 million, within 30 days of the
completion of the Redress Plan, Respondent must pay to the Bureau, by wire
transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent, and according to the
Bureau’s wiring instructions, the difference between the amount of
restitution provided to Affected Consumers and $97 million.
The Bureau may use these remaining funds to pay additional restitution to
Affected Consumers. If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that
additional restitution is wholly or partially impracticable or otherwise
inappropriate, or if funds remain after the additional restitution is completed,
the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S. Treasury as
disgorgement. Respondent will have no right to challenge any actions that
the Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.
Respondent may not condition the payment of any redress to any Affected
Consumer under this Consent Order on that Affected Consumer waiving any
right.

LX,

40
129.

i

Ih.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

fT iS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the

violations of law described in Section [V of this Consent Order, and taking

pate account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 35565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a

civil money penalty of $25 million to the Bureau.

Within ten days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money

penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in

compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in

the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,

IZUS.C. § 5497(d).

Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under

this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how

the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification

from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any

4}
132.

tasurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this

Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes trom the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such olfset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

42
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identifying numbers, which may be used
for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising
out of this Consent Order.
Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
ina Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of
consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS

Dt.
137.

Reporting Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
ofa subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.
Within seven days of the Effective Date, Respondent must designate at least
one telephone number and email, physical, and postal addresses as points of
contact, that the Bureau may use to communicate with Respondent.
Respondent must report any change in the information required to be
submitted under Paragraph 138 above at least 30 days before the change or
as soon as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever ts

Sooner.

44
140.

ff
sf ok de

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective

Date, Respondent must submit to the Regional Director an accurate written

compliance progress report (Compliance Report) that has been approved by

the Board, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a, lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Redress Plan and Compliance Plan; and

c. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section
XH, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

MET.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

PP is FURTHER ORDERED that:

14],

142.

Within seven days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this

Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as well

45
143.

144,

145.

ee PN OA PT Pes EE oN oy
POORER BLA ‘ scart 4 Puan AR? ey Bia “EO At RS
oot oh RRS tae AEA Ba AF Ae x AA ee Ae PAS ae

as to any managers, employees, Service Providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.
For tive years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of
this Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in
structure referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive
officers, as well as to any managers, employees, Service Providers, or other
agents and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the
subject matter of the Consent Order before they assume their
responsibilities,
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.
MUL.

Recordkeeping
iT iS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must create and retain the following business records:

a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with

46
b,

d.

each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions to the
Bureau.
all documents and records pertaining to the Redress Plan, described in
Section VI above.
copies of all training materials; advertisements; consumer-facing
disclosures; and other marketing materials relating to the subject of this
Consent Order, and all materials used to pmplement the Compliance Plan
and measure or evaluate Respondent’s fulfilment of the Compliance Plan,
described in Section VI above.
for each individual Affected Consumer, and each additional consumer
who has remamed enrolled in DCA since opening their consumer-
checking account in person, at one of Respondent’s stores or offsite
account-opening events, between January 1, 2014 through December 31,
2018:
1. the consumer’s name, address, phone number, email address;

it, the amount of Covered Overdraft Fees paid;

ii, the date the consumer enrolled in DCA:

iv. the date the Affected Consumer first unenrolled from DCA Gf

applicable);

v. for consumers who did not unenroll from DCA before the

47
147,

Effective Date and from whom Respondent has been required to
obtain a new enrollment decision pursuant to Paragraph 112, the
date and manner in which Respondent obtained the consumer’s
new enroliment decision; and

vi. the amount of redress paid by Respondent to the Affected
Consumer.

e. all consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received directly
or indirectly, such as through a third party) relating to Covered Overdraft
Fees, and any responses to those complaints or requests.

Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 145 available

to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

MEV.
Notices

(TiS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Unless otherwise directed mn writing by the Bureau, Respondent must

provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents

relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/a re TD

Bank, N.A., File No. 2020-BCFP-0007,” and send them by overnight

courier or first-class maul to the below address and contemporaneously by

48
148.

149,

Regional Director, Bureau Northeast Region
140 East 45th Street, 4th Floor
New York, NY 10017

AY,

Compliance Monitoring
TIS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request trom the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.

49
apy
Peis
Met 2ti

150. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
pavestigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.

RVI.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
ITIS FURTHER ORDERED that:

151. Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.

152. The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of

time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Regional
Director must be in writing.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
MVUL.
IT ES FURTHER ORDERED that:
133. The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as

described in Paragraph 134. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the

30
154.

hand,
Fi
A

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

Upon full payment of redress under the Redress Plan, as provided in Section
VIL, and full payment of the civil money penalty, as provided in Section LX,
the Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential lability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
aifiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under 8 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract

binding the Bureau or the United States.

3]
158.

159.

160.

This Consent Order will terminate five years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except
to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated
agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under §1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. 8 3565{c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete

agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,

52
2020-BCFP-0007 Document1 Filed 08/20/2020 Page 53 of 53

representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

161. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to

violate any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this ( ib of August, 2020.

Ke bensh Ket
Kathleen L. Kraninger ()

Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

53
