DEC G1 2&tdsd BGS PROEOBARISIMWP = Docuntéii 73 Pied 12/68A 4 "Page 4eh24 =P eves

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading

Commission,
Case No. 09-cv-6032

Plaintiff,
v,

ATWOOD & JAMES, LTD., a New York
Corporation, ATWOOD & JAMES, SA, a New
York Corporation, MICHAEL A.
KARDONICK, an individual, and GARY R.
SHAPOFF, an individual,

Defendant(s).

Sem Sr” See” ner” Seem” ee Nee ee” ee See See” Nee See” Segre Senet” Set”

 

CONSENT ORDER FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION, CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY
AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT

I. INTRODUCTION

On January 22, 2009, Plaintiff U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the
“Commission” or “CFTC”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Atwood and James, LTD
(“Atwood LTD”), Atwood and James SA, Inc. (“Atwood SA”), (collectively “Atwood”), Gary
Shapoff (“Shapoff’) and Michael Kardonick (“Kardonick”) (collectively “Defendants”) for
Permanent Injunction, Civil Penalties, and Other Equitable Retief, for violations of the
Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1 ef seg. (2012), and the Commission’s Regulations

(“Regulations”) promulgated thereunder, 17 C.F.R. § 1.1 et seg. (2013).

If. CONSENTS AND AGREEMENTS

To effect settlement of all charges alleged in the Complaint against Defendants without a

trial on the merits or any further judicial proceedings, Defendants:
DEC 81 2@bel é-0eicROGUELEISIAVWP Docummit 74! SARE 4 2710B/ TAS BAYS S554

1. Consent to the entry of this Consent Order For Permanent Injunction, Civil
Monetary Penalty And Other Equitable Relief Under The Commodity Exchange Act (“Consent
Order”) against Defendants Atwood, Shapoff, and Kardonick;

2. Affirm that they have read and agreed to this Consent Order voluntarily, and that
no promise, other than as specifically contained herein, or threat, has been made by the CFTC or

any member, officer, agent or representative thereof, or by any other person, to induce consent to

this Consent Order;
3. Acknowledge service of the summons and Complaint;
4. Admit the jurisdiction of this Court over them and the subject matter of this action

pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(2012);
5. Admit the jurisdiction of the CFTC over the conduct and transactions at issue in
this action pursuant to the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 1, et seq.;
6. Admit that venue properly hes with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the
Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C, § 13a-1(e)(2012);
7. Waive:
(a) any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to Justice
Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated by the
Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1 et seq.
(2013), relating to, or arising from, this action;
(b) any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat. 847, 857-868
(1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 12] Stat. 112, 204-205 (2007), relating to, or

arising from, this action;
DEC G1 28¢4sd BES-VEOGOSLETS'MWP  Docuntetit 73! “Fifet? 12/08/245 Bade 3 tie4 =P 8425

(c) any claim of Double Jeopardy based upon the institution of this action or the
entry in this action of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any other relief, including
this Consent Order; and

(d) any and all rights of appeal from this action;

8. Consent to the continued jurisdiction of this Court over them for the purpose of
implementing and enforcing the terms and conditions of this Consent Order and for any other
purpose relevant to this action, even if Kardonick or Shapoff now or in the future reside outside
the jurisdiction of this Court;

9. Agree that they will not oppose enforcement of this Consent Order by alleging
that it fails to comply with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and waive any
objection based thereon;

10. Agree that neither they nor any of their agents or employees under their authority
ot control shall take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
allegation in the Complaint or the Findings of Fact or Conclusions of Law in this Consent Order,
or creating or tending to create the impression that the Complaint and/or this Consent Order is
without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect their: (a)
testimonial obligations, or (b) right to take legal positions in other proceedings to which the
CFTC is not a party. Defendants shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of their
agents and/or employees under their authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement; and

11. Admit to all of the findings made in this Consent Order and all of the allegations
in the Complaint. Further, Defendants agree and intend that the allegations contained in the

Complaint and all of the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law contained in this Consent
DEC G1 2itdcd BIG CHDEOSLEDSIMWP Document 73! FFiReP 12/08/845 Beye 4 HID4 P.85725

Order shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect, without further proof, in
the course of: (a) any current or subsequent bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or
against Defendants; (b) any proceeding pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 12a (2012), and/or Part 3 of the
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 3.1 ef seg. (2013); and/or (c) any proceeding to enforce the terms of
this Consent Order.

12. Agree to provide immediate notice to this Court and the Commission by certified
mail, in the manner required by paragraph 74 of Part VII of this Consent Order, of any
bankruptcy proceeding filed by, on behalf of, or against them, whether inside or outside the
United States, and

13. Agree that no proviston of this Consent Order shall in any way limit or umpair the
ability of any other person or entity to seek any legal or equitable remedy against them in any
other proceeding.

WK. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS

The Court, being fully advised in the premises, finds that there is good cause for the entry
of this Consent Order and that there is no just reason for delay. The Court therefore directs the
entry of the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, permanent injunction and equitable
relief pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), as set forth herein.

THE PARTIES AGREE AND THE COURT HEREBY FINDS:

A. Findings of Fact
1. The Parties To This Consent Order

14. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an independent federal
regulatory agency that is charged by Congress with administering and enforcing the Act,

7US.C. §§ 1 et seq. (2012), and the Regulations promulgated thereunder, 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.1 ef

seq. (2013).
DEC 41 2@tdsd 6:69 cVEdSLEISIMWP Docume 73! Fie 12/08/ £4 5 Beye BF D4 P.@6725

15. Atwood Ltd. was a registered New York corporation. Atwood Ltd. operated out
of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil but claimed that its main office is in Rochester, New York. Atwood
Ltd., along with Atwood §.A., engaged in the business of soliciting and accepting funds from

' clients to trade foreign currency options on their behalf. Atwood Ltd. has never been registered
with the Commission in any capacity.

16. Atwood S.A. was a registered New York corporation. Atwood S.A. operated out
of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil but claimed its main office in Rochester, New York. Atwood S.A.,
along with Atwood Ltd., engaged im the business of soliciting clients and accepting funds from
clients to trade foreign currency options with or on their behalf. Atwood S.A. has never been
registered with the Commission in any capacity.

17. _Kardonick is an individual who is currently incarcerated in Federal custody.
Kardonick, through Atwood, engaged in the business of soliciting clients and accepting funds to
trade foreign currency options with or on their behalf. Kardonick, at different time, identified
himself as the president or a principal of Atwood. Other Atwood representatives and the Atwood
website described Kardomick as Atwood’s head analyst and trader. Kardonick was a signatory
on bank accounts in the name of Atwood Ltd. and Atwood 8.A. He has never been registered
with the Commission in any capacity.

18.  Shapoff is an individual who is currently incarcerated in Federal custody.
Shapoff was often identified as an agent, employee or officer of Atwood and solicited clients on
behalf of Atwood to trade foreign currency options. Shapoff was a signatory on an Atwood §.A.
bank account. He has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

2. Defendants’ Solicitation of Clients

19. Beginning in or about January 2005 and continuing to January 22, 2009,

(“Relevant Period”) Defendants fraudulently solicited and accepted funds from multiple
DEC B1 2ldacd 6:65: cVOESSLCIS!MWP Documeft 73! Fifet?12/0b/F4 Pages ti24 =P aeves

individuals located throughout the world, including the United States, the United Kingdom and
other parts of Western Europe, for the purported purpose of trading foreign currency options.
Defendants fraudulently solicited more than $1 million, and misappropriated client funds for
personal use.

20. Atwood, Kardonick and Shapoff solicited clients through the internet at
www.atwoodjames.com, mail flyers, other promotional material, cold calling and other personal
solicitations. Atwood 8.A.’s solicitations focused on prospective clients located in Portugal and
Atwood Ltd.’s solicitations focused on prospective clients located in the United States, the
United Kingdom and elsewhere. However, Atwood 8.A. and Atwood Ltd. representatives
generally referred only to “Atwood” in their oral solicitations of prospective clients.

21, In its written and oral solicitations, Atwood, directly and through its employees,
agents and officers, and , Kardonick and Shapoff directly made material misrepresentations and
omissions concerning, among other things, Atwood’s operations and regulatory status,
Defendants’ lengthy and successful trading histories, the safety of clients’ principal investment
due to the use of certain trading strategies, and Kardonick and Shapoff’s criminal records.
Overall, Atwood conveyed to prospective clients that profitable returms on small investments in
foreign currency options were highly likely, if not virtually guaranteed.

22. Through its website, www.atwoodjames.com, promotional material and customer
agreements, Atwood offerred trading in foreign currency options in the “global foreign exchange
market” (“forex market”). The website provided a detailed description of the forex market,
advice on investing in foreign currency options, as well as regularly updated market reports.
Through its oral solicitations of at least certain prospective clients, Atwood, Kardonick and

Shapoff emphasized that Atwood trades foreign currency options on U.S. exchanges on behalf of
DEC G1 2Atasd 66S chOEOSZEUSIMWP = Documeht 73! SFiReP 12/08/84 5 Peg? G24 P.88725

its clients.

23. On the website and in the flyers and other materials, Atwood created an
appearance of a sophisticated global enterprise. Its website contact information indicated its
office is in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In email correspondence, Atwood also listed offices in
Amsterdam, London and New York City. To create the appearance of a strong European
presence, Atwood used what appears to be a British royal family crest with the letters “A” and
“J” emblazoned on it as its logo, and “Ltd” in its name, a British commonwealth term for
incorporation. The Atwood website also claimed to serve “clients al] over Western and Central
Europe.” Similarly, with respect to their solicitations of prospective clients in areas such as
Portugal, Atwood used “S.A.” in its name and logo.

24. —- Yet, in certain oral solicitations, Atwood, Kardonick and Shapoff emphasized that
while having a global presence, its main office was in Rochester, New York. Earlier United
States clients understood Atwood’s main office to be in New York City.

25, Atwood’s website reassured prospective clients that, with Atwood, the customer
receives over 30 years of combined tenure in the forex market with the ability to “instantly
choose and execute trades most likely to succeed for our clients.” Atwood’s website provided
further reassurance about Atwood’s experience by stating that “it has unparalleled knowledge of
the forex market supported by experience in commodity futures and options.” Atwood further
claimed on the website that it focused on forex exclusively the last fifteen years. By such clairns,
Atwood implied that it has been profitably engaged in foreign currency trading for much of the
time after its initial incorporation in 1978.

26. Atwood also used promotional flyers that similarly emphasized its claimed almost

30-year trading history. At least one Atwood client saw an Atwood flyer stating, “Small
DEC G1 2hddcd BGR cVOGSELEISIMWP = Documett 73! Fire i 2/0B/F4 “Pages ti24 =P Baves

movements. Big benefits ... Every day for the past 29 years, we have been making timely and
intelligent decisions on behalf of our clients. Isn’t it time you found out how you can earn big
investments from small currency movements?”

27. According to its website and oral solicitations, Atwood, Kardonick and Shapoff
purportedly assigned a team of three, a broker, analyst, and strategist, to each client account, and
promised weekly contact to discuss planned transactions. Clients either provided powers of
attorney to allow Atwood to trade on their behalf without explicit approval, i.e., with discretion,
or authorized all transactions to be executed on their behalf.

28. Atwood purported to offer four month trades where at the end of four months
Atwood exercised the options, and the client could elect to withdraw principal and revenue or
reinvest and plan another four month trade.

29. In the website, Atwood pronounced that “Our goal for you is a 30% return in four
months. That is equivalent to a 90% annual retum, When is the last time your stocks almost
doubled in a year!”

30. Inthe website, Atwood provided an example of “A Typical Forex Trading
Experience” to show how they may achieve this goal by using a trading strategy called a
“straddle.” Atwood’s website described a straddle as “playing on both sides of the fence” and as
an “insurance policy” against heavy losses.

31.  Atwood’s website also represented that Atwood trades through a clearing firm
and deals with established firms. To convince prospective clients that Atwood was a “legitimate
company,” Atwood’s website answered the question of “how do I know that I am dealing with a
legitimate company” by stating that “it is important to trade with firms which are utilizing

established financial entities” and claiming its “current clearing firm did $28 billion dollars in
DEC G1 20¢4sd 6:62 cVDEOSLEIS!MWP Docume 73! “Fife 12/08/F4 “Pages GF24 0 PL ves

business last year.”

32. The Atwood website also reassured prospective clients that they would be able to
track an option’s current market value because “currencies are traded on exchanges that have
continuous electronic quotation systems.”

33. To further lull prospective clients into believing that Atwood was legitimate and
regulated, the website then claimed that the Atwood advisors and principals “although they are
not have required to be licensed to trade foreign currency options, have been licensed through |
various governmental agencies at one time or another in the past most still are.”

34. Atwood’s, Kardonick’s and Shapoft’s personal solicitations repeated the claims of
Atwood’s vast and successful trading experience, the legitimacy of Atwood and its
representatives through licensing, regulation and exchange trading, the likelihood of profits, and
the security of clients’ principal through the use of the straddle strategy.

35. Shortly after mailing an Atwood postage-paid flyer, or sometimes without prior
contact, prospective clients received a call from an Atwood representative. The Atwood
representative urged prospective clients to purchase options in Eurodollars or the Japanese Yen
in order to capitalize on markets that Atwood represented would move dramatically.

36. During these imitial calls with at least certain prospective clients, Atwood
representatives emphasized that Atwood was a licensed or registered U.S. entity regulated by the
U.S. government to trade foreign currency options, and in certain instances, claimed the trading
occurred on U.S. exchanges.

37. Atwood also reinforced the use and protections of the straddle strategy. Atwood
representatives told prospective clients that, with this strategy, clients would not lose their

principal. Those same representatives created the impression that Atwood’s trading strategy
DEC G1 2@sel6:098cw-B6bS2°RIS'MWP Documése73 ! Filed12/68/14 =Pagestrap24 oF. 1ives

virtually guaranteed profits. For example, one prospective client was told that he would never
lose his investment and if he did, he would be the “unluckiest trader in history.”

38. In one such solicitation, Atwood, Kardonick and Shapoff told clients and
prospective chents that Atwood conducted its business and trading out of its main office in
Rochester, New York. The Atwood website and emails, however, did not provide any
information conceming a Rochester office. To the contrary, the website listed only an address
and telephone number in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Atwood emails identified other Atwood offices
purportedly located in Amsterdam, London and NewYork City, but not Rochester. When
questioned by prospective clients, Atwood representatives provided a Rochester address, a local
Rochester telephone number and a toll-free telephone number. These contact points were for
Shapoff.

39. At least three of Atwood’s clients called the Rochester local and toll-free
telephone numbers to verify that Atwood was a U.S. company with a legitimate and substantial
presence in the United States.

40. In one instance, a prospective client called the Rochester number and a person
named “Gary” answered the telephone. “Gary” told this client that all Atwood representatives
were out of the office and that no other executives were available to talk at that time. Gary also
told the client that the Rochester office had 16 other people in it, but that none had direct lines
because they were traders and did not wish to be interrupted while trading. “Gary” was Shapoff.

41. Prospective clients were satisfied after calling the Rochester numbers that they
were dealing with a legitimate U.S. entity based in Rochester, New York.

42. During the telephone solicitations, if prospective clients questioned Atwood’s,

Kardonick’s and Shapoff’s claim that clients’ principal was not at risk through options trading,

10
DEC G1 2iPlebel 6-082 cVOGOS2°ESS'MWP DocuméHé73! Fil@eet2/08/f4 =PagesrhaP24 fF. 12-25

or if they were unable to invest the minimum investment amount of $13,000, the Atwood
representative referred them to the website and a “senior trading advisor,” or to Kardonick
himself, who representatives and Kardonick describe as Atwood’s head trading advisor.

43. Atwood representatives informed prospective clients that Kardonick had over 30
years of trading experience with a virtually spotless trading history. Representatives also told
prospective clients that Kardonick made the decisions on whether a prospective client may invest
less that the required minimum amount.

44. —_ Kardonick boasted to prospective clients that he was one of the best in the
business with over 30 years of experience in options trading “on Wall Street” and regaled them
with supposed connections with heads of state, Wall Street and politicians. He reiterated that
when trading with Atwood, clients’ principal investments were safe and profitable returns were
virtually guaranteed.

45. _ As part of their solicitations, Atwood, Kardonick and Shapoff provided a
Customer Advisory Agreement for clients to sign (the “Agreement”). The Agreement referenced
on-exchange and over-the-counter trading of foreign currency options but did not specify where
or with whom trading occurs. The only trading entity referenced is Atwood.

46. The Agreement also provided that Atwood charged a $220 commission fee and a
$20 administrative fee per option contract.

47. — Atwood instructed the prospective clients to strike certain risk disclosure
provisions in the Agreement, including provisions stating that “as a result of market conditions
and other factors, you may sustain a loss to your initial investment and any additional fund[s]
you deposit,” and “[s]trategies utilizing ...straddles may have as much risk as simple long or

short positions. It may be difficult or impossible to execute orders and offset or liquidate open

1]
DEC 41 2@ebe!6:08Fcv-BEBSP°EIS'MWP Documéft73 ! Filéd412/08/14! SPage3eh24 =P. 13725

market position due to market liquidity and /or operations.”

48. At the same time, Atwood instructed prospective clients to highlight a statement
in the Agreement that emphasizes the much higher probability of a profitable returm based on the
straddle strategy touted in Atwood’s personal solicitations of prospective clients. The

highlighted statement provides:
However options traded on a weighted straddle basis have a much higher
probability of making money Then [sic] just playing calls or puts alone, also
buying options closer to market price greatly enhances your chances of
making money.

49. The highlighted statement reinforced Atwood’s, Kardonick’s and Shapoff’s oral
reassurances to prospective chents concerning the security of their investment through use of the
straddle strategy and eviscerated the risk disclosure set forth immediately above it in the
Agreement, which included the statement that “an option is an extremely complicated trading
vehicle, which carries substantial risks ...”

50. Atwood instructed clients to wire funds to U.S. bank accounts held in the name of
Atwood. Kardonick was a signatory on the Atwood bank accounts, and Shapoff was a signatory
on at least one Atwood bank account.

51. Thereafter, Atwood sent confirmations on Atwood letterhead of the profitable
trades purportedly executed by Atwood traders. The confirmations contained the client’s name,
the client’s account number, analyst name, and the date and details of the trades. The
confirmations did not reflect any exchange, clearing firm, or counterparty information. The only
company identified on the confirmations is Atwood. Based on the confirmations, Atwood clients
believed their funds were held in segregated accounts in their individual names.

52. Along with the confirmations showing profitable trading, Atwood, Kardonick and

Shapoff also made oral representations that clients were making money through Atwood’s

12
DEC B81 2@eselG:09&cv-O6O82°RISIMWP DocuméAt73 ! Filed2/08/14' 5Pageaassh24 =P. L4ves

trading.

53. After receiving written and oral representations of profitable trading based on
their initial investments, some Atwood clients invested additional funds with Atwood.

54. To the extent that Atwood and Kardonick actually engaged in any trading on
behalf of clients, in at least one instance, Atwood and Kardonick traded client funds without
client authorization. The client had not granted Atwood power of attomey over the trading of his
account. He initially authorized certain trades in Euro options. Shortly thereafter, Atwood
informed the client that his Euro options trade had reached its strike price and, if the client
relinquished his position, he would sell for a profit of $1,000 or 15%. The client instructed
Atwood to exercise the option and pay him his principal and return. Instead, Atwood sold the
Euro option and bought five Japanese Yen puts for a total of $6,650. When the client
complained, an Atwood representative said Kardonick had authorized the trade.

55. With respect to at least certain Atwood clients, Atwood eventually notified them
that all their funds had been lost in trading, including their principal investments. Despite
demands by clients, Atwood refused to refund clients’ principal. Atwood also refused to provide
additional documentation that Atwood was indeed trading on behalf of the clients.

3. Defendants’ Solicitations Were False and Misleading
56. Defendants’ solicitations of prospective and existing clients as alleged above were

materially false and misleading because, among other things:

(a) Atwood Ltd., Atwood 8.A., and Kardonick did not hold any known licenses or
registrations with the United States government in connection with the trading of foreign
currency options; specifically, Atwood and Kardonick were not registered with the
Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other financial regulator;

(b) Atwood had not been profitably trading foreign currency options for the last fifteen
years on behalf of clients; as noted herein, no Atwood trading accounts were located and
funds in Atwood bank accounts were not used for trading on behalf of clients; in addition,

13
DEC G1 2@aseld:09%cV-B6BS29RISIMWP Documésté73 ! Filéa2/68/14 =Page3eep24 =P. LS v25

although Atwood Ltd. has an incorporation date of 1978, the New York Division of
Corporations dissolved it in 1982, and Atwood did not form again until 2005. Similarly,

Atwood 8.A, did not form until 2003;

(c) Defendants failed to disclose that Kardonick and Shapoff had criminal fraud
convictions;

(d) Atwood did not maintain an office with staff in Rochester, New York. The Rochester
address Atwood provided was the address of a retail clothing store and the Rochester
telephone number Atwood provided was the home telephone number of . Shapoff; and

(e) even with the use of the straddle strategy, clients’ principal was at risk when trading
foreign currency options.

57.  Atwood’s, Kardonick’s and Shapoff’s solicitations were also false and misleading
because, despite claims that Atwood successfully traded on U.S, exchanges and that Atwood
traded through a clearing firm, Atwood never traded on behalf of or in the name of clients on
U.S. exchanges or indeed, anywhere. Likewise, Atwood did not have a relationship with a
clearing firm. Moreover, no at any FCM or other financial institution holds trading accounts in
the name of or controlled by Atwood Ltd. or Atwood S.A.

58, Defendants’s solicitations were also false and misleading because Kardonick was not
a successful foreign currency options trader. Kardonick’s commodity futures and options trading
accounts reflect that from 2003 through September 2008, Kardonick sustained net trading losses
of approximately $1.7 million.

| 59. Defendants knowingly or with reckless disregard made the above-alleged material
misrepresentations or omissions. Atwood clients relied on these misrepresentations and
omissions in making their decisions to trade foreign currency options with Atwood.

4, Defendants Misappropriated Funds
60. Defendants accepted funds from Atwood clients for the purported purpose of

14
DEC Bl 2Qacel 6CCHDEOILEISMGNIP Docum@Be73! FiSEC12/O0/P4 SPARE ER24 = F-18725

trading foreign currency options.

61. Defendants misappropriated client funds for personal use and to make payments to
other Atwood clients.
B. Conclusions of Law

1. Jurisdiction and Venue

62. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012),
which provides that whenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has engaged, is
engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a violation of any provision of
the Act or any rule, regulation, or order promulgated thereunder, the Commission may bring an
action in the proper district court of the United States against such person to enjoin such act or
practice, or to enforce compliance with the Act, or any rule, regulation or order thereunder.

63. Venue properly lies with this Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 13a-1(e) (2012), because the Defendants reside in this jurisdiction and the acts and practices in
violation of the Act occurred within this District.

2. Fraud by Misrepresentations and Omissions, False Account Statements, and
Misappropriation of Funds

64. By the conduct described in paragraphs 1 through 63 above, Defendants cheated
and defrauded, or attempted to cheat and defraud, and willfully deceived, or attempted to
deceive, their customers by, among other things, knowingly or recklessly making false,
deceptive, or misleading representations and omissions of material facts in their solicitations of
prospective and existing clients to trade foreign currency options, by engaging in unauthorized
trading, by issuing false oral and written statements concerning the profitability of trading on
behalf of clients, and by misappropriating client funds in violation of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) (2012),

and 17 C.F.R. 1,1(6)(1)-(3), and 32.9(2013).

15
DEC Bl 2@abel6:09¢cVOeOS2°RIS'MWP DocuméAé73! Filed12/68/4 “Pagetesh24 =P - eves

65, Kardonick and Shapoff controlled Atwood, directly or indirectly, and did not act in
good faith or knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, Atwood’s act or acts in violation of the Act and
Regulations; therefore, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b) (2012), Kardonick and Shapoff are liable for
Atwood’s violations of 7 U.S.C. § 6¢(b) (2012), and 17 C.F.R. 1.1(6)(1)-(3), and 32.9(2013),

66. The foregoing acts, omissions, and failures of Kardonick and Shapoff occurred within
the scope of their employment, office, or agency with Atwood, therefore, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. §
2(a)(1)(B\(2012) and 17 C-F.R. § 1.2 (2013), Atwood is liable for Kardonick and Shapoff’s acts,
omissions, and failures in violation of 7 U.S.C. § 6c(b) (2012), and 17 C.F.R. 1.1(b)(1)-(3), and

32.9(2013).

IV. PERMANENT INJUNCTION

IT 1S HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

67. Based upon and in connection with the foregoing conduct, pursuant to Section 6c of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), Defendants are permanently restrained, enjoined and
prohibited from directly or indirectly:

a. cheating and defrauding, or attempting to cheat and defraud, and willfully
deceiving or attempting to deceive, their customers by, among other things,
knowingly or recklessly making false, deceptive, or misleading representations
and omissions of material facts in their solicitations of prospective and existing
clients to trade foreign currency options, by engaging in unauthorized trading, by
issuing false oral and written statemenis concerning the profitability of trading on
behalf of chents, and by misappropriating client funds in violation of 7 U.S.C.

§ 6e(b) (2012), and 17 C.F.R. 1.1(b)(1)-(3), and 32.4(2013).

16
DEC 81 2c 6-08 cVDESIMEISIMWP Docume 73! FifeeP12/08/F4 2 Page’tPor24 P8725

68. Defendants are also permanently restrained, enjomed and prohibited from directly or

indirectly:

a,

Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined
in 7 U.S.C. § 1a (2012));

Entering into any transactions involving commodity futures, options on commodity
futures, commodity options (as that term is defined in Regulation 1.3 (hh), 17 C.F.R.
§ 1.3(hh) (2013)) (‘commodity options”), security futures products, and/or foreign
currency (as described in 7 U.S.C. §§ 2(c)(2)(B) and 2(c)(2)(C)(i)) (forex
contracts”) for their own personal account or for any account in which they have a
direct or indirect interest;

Having any commodity futures, options on commodity futures, commodity
options, security futures products, and/or forex contracts traded on their behalf:
Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving commodity
futures, options on commodity futures, commodity options, security futures
products, and/or forex contracts;

Soliciting, receiving or accepting any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity futures, options on commodity futures,
commodity options, security futures products, and/or forex contracts;

Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission, except as

provided for in 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2013); and/or

17
DEC 41 2htacd 66h DESYLEISIMWP Document 73! Fifer 12/b8/F4 Page tes 24 P1825

g. Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in 17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a) (2013)), agent
or any other officer or employee of any person (as that term is defined in 7 U.S.C.
§ 1a(2012)) registered, exempted from registration or required to be registered

with the Commission except as provided for in 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2013).

V. RESTITUTION AND CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY

A. Restitution

69. Defendants Shapoff and Kardonick shall pay restitution consistent with the
Restitution Order in the Final Judgment in the cnminal actions styled U.S. v. Shapoff, 6:11-CR-
06110 (WDNY) and U.S. v. Kardonick, 6:11-CR-06068 (WDNY), respectively.

B. Civil Monetary Penalty

70. Defendants shall, jointly and severally, pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
Two Million, One Hundred, Sixty-Four Thousand, Fifty-Nine Dollars and Fifty-Seven Cents
($2,164,059.57) (“CMP Obligation”), plus post-judgment interest, within thirty (30) days of the
date of the entry of this Consent Order. Post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP
Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Consent Order and shall be determined by using
the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Consent Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
§ 1961 (2006).

71. Defendants shall pay their CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be
made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the

Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

18
DEC 81 2Qided BGG DETELESSNWP DocumBAe 74! SiSeP4 2/68/P4 S BARNS SF 24

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables — AMZ 340

E-mail Box: 9-AMC-AMZ-AR-CFTC

DOT/FAA/MMAC

6500 §. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-5644
If payment by electronic funds transfer is chosen, Defendants shall contact the address above to
receive payment instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Defendants shall
accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that identifies Defendants and the
name and docket number of this proceeding. Defendants shall simultaneously transmit copies of
the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures

Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

C. Provisions Related to Monetary Sanctions

72. Partial Satisfaction: Any acceptance by the Commission or the Monitor of partial
payment of Defendants’ CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a waiver of his/her/their obligation
to make further payments pursuant to this Consent Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right
to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

D. Cooperation

73. Defendants shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission, including
the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, and any other governmental agency in this action,
and in any investigation, civil litigation, or administrative matter related to the subject matter of

this action or any current or future Commission investigation related thereto.

VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

74, Notice: All notices required to be given by any provision in this Consent Order shall

be sent certified mail, retum receipt requested, as follows:

19

P.28425
DEC O1 2@abel 6-0 cP OEOS22ESSMMWP DocuméAt 73! Fifee?12/08/f4 “Page-Agar24 Petes

Notice to the Commission:
Richard A. Glaser
Deputy Director
US Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

1155 21" St, NW
Washington, DC 20581

All such notices to the Commission shall reference the name and docket number of this action.

75. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Defendants satisfy in full their
Restitution Obligation, Disgorgement Obligation, and CMP Obligation as set forth in this
Consent Order, Defendants shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of
any change to his telephone number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the
change.

76. Entire Agreement and Amendments: This Consent Order incorporates all of the
terms and conditions of the settlement among the parties hereto to date. Nothing shall serve to
amend or modify this Consent Order in any respect whatsoever, unless: (a) reduced to writing;
(b) signed by all parties hereto; and (c) approved by order of this Court.

77, Invalidation: If any provision of this Consent Order or if the application of any
provision or circumstance is held invalid, then the remainder of this Consent Order and the
application of the provision to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected by the
holding.

78. Waiver: The failure of any party to this Consent Order or of any
[Customer/Participant/Client] at any time to require performance of any provision of this
Consent Order shall in no manner affect the right of the party or [Customer/Participant/Client] at

a later time to enforce the same or any other provision of this Consent Order. No waiver in one

20
DEC B1 2@tdsd 6:68 cVDESTREISIMWP Documeft 73! FifeePi2/08/F4 = Page-sP oF 24 Peeves

or more instances of the breach of any provision contained in this Consent Order shall be deemed
to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of such breach or waiver of the breach of any
other provision of this Consent Order.

79. Continuing Jurisdiction of this Court: This Court shall retain jurisdiction of this
action to ensure compliance with this Consent Order and for all other purposes related to this
action, including any motion by Defendants to modify or for relief from the terms of this
Consent Order.

80, Injunctive and Equitable Relief Provisions: The injunctive and equitable relief
provisions of this Consent Order shall be binding upon Defendants upon any person under their
authority or control, and upon any person who receives actual notice of this Consent Order, by
personal service, e-mail, facsimile or otherwise insofar as he or she is acting in active concert or
participation with Defendants.

81. Counterparts and Facsimile Execution: This Consent Order may be executed in two
or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall
become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto
and delivered (by facsimile, e-mail, or otherwise) to the other party, it being understood that all
parties need not sign the same counterpart. Any counterpart or other signature to this Consent
Order that is delivered by any means shall be deemed for all purposes as constituting good and
valid execution and delivery by such party of this Consent Order.

82. Defendants understand that the terms of the Consent Order are enforceable through
contempt proceedings, and that, in any such proceedings they may not challenge the validity of

this Consent Order.

21
DEC 81 2idsd 6:08 cUDEIIREISIMWP Documeéfit 73! FilbeP12/08/F4 -Baige-s2 oF 24 0 PES 25

There being no just reason for delay, the Clerk of the Court is hereby directed to enter
this CONSENT ORDER FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION, CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY

AND OTHER EQUITABLE RELIEF UNDER THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT.

 

 

IT IS SO ORDERED on this_2 day of De vy 2014.

?
Chants uraausa
UNITED STATEGPISTRICTAUDGE

22
DEC G1 2@asel 6:00cvOees2°ESS'MWP DocumeéAt73' Fitedt2/08/f4 “Page zeeP24 =F e4ves

a,

CONSENTED TO AND APPROVED BY:

 

Michael Kardonick, individually andon ~ James H. Holl, Il

Behalf of Atwood & James, LTD and Chief Trial Attorney

Atwood & James, SA, Inc. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission
1155 21" St, NW

Date: Washington, DC 20581

(202)418-5000
James Hartt, counsel for Michael Vf. yy,
Kardonick Dated 7 2 7 U ¥

Date: | [3] L4
nis

 

 

 

 

 

 

hapoff, indivifiu don Behalf
of Atwood & James, LTD and Atwood &
James, SA, Inc.

Date:

  
 

 

 

énce Kasperik, doungeLferGary “~~~
Shapoff

Date: $f [1

23
DEC 81 2@dgo GOS tv-B6b8ERRISMAWP Documésé73 ! Filea°l2/68/f4 SPagesAPoh24 P.25725

CONSENTED TO AND APPROVED BY:

Madea p bobardh

Michael Kardonick, individually and on James H. Holl, If

Behalf of Atwood & James, LTD and Chief Trial Attorney
Atwood & James, SA, Inc. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission

1155 21" St, NW
Date: Dely fis fdoty Washington, DC 20581

(202)418-5000

 
    

es Hartt, counsel for Michael
ardonick Dated

 

Date: Ff 4 f

 

Gary Shapoff, individually and on Behalf
of Atwood & James, LTD and Atwood &
James, SA, Inc.

Date:

 

Lawrence Kasperik, counsel for Gary
Shapoff

Date:

23

aK TOTAL PAGE.25 #x
