UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

=e Ree Srp ter heher ce enol a eae tae “e
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

a Rif ne SEALED INDICTMENT
JOO HYUN BAHN, | 16 Cr,

a/k/a “Dennis Bahn, “
BAN KI SANG, and

MALCOLM HARRIS, 7 E CR 3 eS iH ‘

Defendants.
=e Sekt St A ote =afcacke* o's
Overview
1,4 From in or about March 2013 through in or about
May 2015, JOO HYUN BAHN, a/k/a “Dennis Bahn” (“JOO HYUN BAHN” or
“BAHN”), the defendant, and his father, BAN KI SANG ("BAN KI
SANG” or “BAN"”), the defendant, engaged in an international

conspiracy to bribe a foreign official (“Foreign Official-1”) of
a country in the Middle East (*Country-1") in connection with
the attempted $800 million sale of a building complex in Vietnam
known as Landmark 72.

2, At all times relevant to the Indictment, Keangnam
Enterprises Co., Ltd. (“Keangnam”) was a South Korean
construction company that built and owned Landmark 72, and BAN
KI SANG, the defendant, was a senior executive at Keangnam. In
2013 Keangnam was experiencing a liquidity crisis. The debts

owed to Keangnam’s creditors were maturing and the company
needed to raise capital. Keangnam turned to JOO HYUN BAHN,
a/k/a “Dennis Bahn,” the defendant, who was a commercial real
estate broker in Manhattan, to secure an investor for Landmark
72. If BAHN were successful, he stood to earn a commission of
at least five million dollars.

3, Instead of obtaining financing through legitimate
channels, JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendants, engaged
ina corrupt scheme to pay bribes to Foreign Official-1, through
MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, who held himself out as an agent
of Foreign Official-1, to induce Foreign Official-1 to use his
influence to convince Country-1’s sovereign wealth fund (the
“Fund”) to acquire Landmark 72. In or about April 2014, based
on communications with HARRIS, BAHN and BAN agreed to pay,
through HARRIS, a $500,000 upfront bribe and a $2,000,000 bribe
upon the close of the sale of Landmark 72 to Foreign Official-1
on behalf of Keangnam. Unbeknownst to BAHN or BAN, however,
HARRIS did not have the claimed relationship with Foreign
Official-1 and did not intend to pay the bribe money to Foreign
Official-1. Instead, HARRIS simply stole the $500,000 upfront
bribe paid by BAHN and BAN, which HARRIS then spent on lavish
personal expenses.

4, Over the next year, as the Landmark 72 deal
showed no signs of actual progress, Keangnam’s liquidity crisis

worsened. Believing that the upfront bribe that JOO HYUN BAHN, |

2
the defendant, had paid would eventually bear fruit and not
wanting to lose a potential multi-million-dollar commission,
BAHN engaged in a fraudulent scheme to trick Keangnam and its
creditors into believing the Fund was close to acquiring
Landmark 72. In furtherance of this scheme, BAHN repeatedly
lied to Keangnam and its creditors about the status of the deal,
knowing that Keangnam and its creditors would rely upon the
misrepresentations. BAHN forged emails from Foreign Official-1
and other documents to make the sale of Landmark 72 appear
imminent. Ultimately, when the deal with the Fund failed to
materialize, Keangnam was forced to enter court receivership in
south Korea.

Relevant Persons and Entities

 

5. At all times relevant to this Indictment, JOO
HYUN BAHN, the defendant, was a national of South Korea anda
lawful permanent resident of the United States residing in New
Jersey. As such, BAHN was a “domestic concern” as that term is
used in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15,
United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h) (1). BAHN worked’as a
broker at two commercial real estate brokerage firms (“Firm-1”
and “Firm-2") at offices located in Manhattan. Specifically,
BAHN worked at Firm-1 between in or about February 2013 and
March 2014, and at Firm-2 between in or about March 2014 and May

2015. BAHN is the son of BAN KI SANG, the defendant.
6. At all times relevant to this Indictment, BAN KI
SANG, the defendant, was a national and resident of South Korea.
BAN was employed by and served as a senior advisor to Keangnam.
BAN is the father of JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant.

7. At all times relevant to this Indictment, MALCOLM
HARRIS, the defendant, was a national of the United States who
previously résided in Manhattan and Brooklyn, New York. HARRIS
is a self-described arts and fashion consultant and blogger.

8. At all times relevant to this Indictment, “CC-1,”
a co-conspirator not named as a defendant herein, but whose
identity is known to the Grand Jury, was a national of South
Korea and a lawful permanent resident of the United States. As
such, CC-1 was a “domestic concern” as that term is used in the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2 (h) (1). CC-1
worked with JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, at Firm-1 and Firm-2
in Manhattan.

9. At all times relevant to this Indictment, Foreign
Official-1 was an officer and employee of the government of
Country-1, and a department, agency, and instrumentality:
thereof, and a person acting in an official capacity for and on
behalf of such government, department, agency, and
instrumentality. As such, Foreign Official-1 was a “foreign
official” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United

States Code, Section 78dd-2(h) (2) (A).
10. At all times relevant to this Indictment, the
Fund was a sovereign wealth fund controlled by the government of
Country-1. As such, the Fund was an “instrumentality” of a
foreign government as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15,
United States Code, Section 78dd-2.

Background on Landmark 72

 

11. In or about 2012, Keangnam completed the
construction of a 72-story commercial office building known as
the Keangnam Hanoi Landmark Tower and two 48-story residential
buildings in Hanoi, Vietnam (collectively, “Landmark 72”). At
the time of its construction, the Landmark 72 office tower was
the tallest building in the Indochina Peninsula. The
construction of Landmark 72 cost more than $1 billion, which
Keangnam financed, in part, through loans issued by South Korean
banks. At all times relevant to this Indictment, Keangnam owned
Landmark 72.

12. In early 2013, Keangnam was experiencing
liquidity problems. Faced with maturing debts owed to its
creditors, including those incurred in the construction of
Landmark 72, Keangnam sought to refinance or sell Landmark 72 to
an investor for approximately $800 million.

13. In or about February 2013, BAN KI SANG, the
defendant, arranged for Keangnam to retain his son, JOO HYUN

BAHN, the defendant, to broker a refinancing of Landmark 72 on
behalf of Keangnam., At the time, BAHN was working as a real
estate broker at Firm-1 in Manhattan. BAN arranged for BAHN to
broker the refinancing despite the fact that BAHN had no prior
experience brokering a deal of the size or complexity of
Landmark 72. If BAHN were successful, he stood to earn a multi-
million dollar-commission for himself and Firm-1.

14. In or about March 2013, JOO HYUN BAHN, the
defendant. was introduced to MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant,
through a mutual acquaintance in Manhattan. BAHN and HARRIS
began discussing potential business opportunities, including
Landmark 72. HARRIS claimed he could assist BAHN with the
refinance or sale of Landmark 72 through HARRIS‘’s personal
connections, which HARRIS represented as including members of
the royal family of Country-1. In exchange for helping BAHN
secure an investor for Landmark 72, BAHN promised to pay HARRIS
a “cut” of the multi-million-dollar commission that BAHN
expected to earn from the sale.

The FCPA Bribery Scheme

15, Beginning in or about September 2013, JOO HYUN
BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendants, attempted to pay bribes,
and to take advantage of both the purported personal connections
of MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, and those of BAHN. and BAN’S
own family, in order to convince government officials of

Country-1 to have the Fund acquire Landmark 72, rather than
directly pitching Landmark 72 to the Fund through legitimate
channels.

16. For example, in or about September 2013, JOO HYUN
BAHN, the defendant, with the knowledge and consent of BAN KI
SANG, the defendant, attempted to arrange a meeting with the
Head of State of Country-1 (the “Head of State”) in connection
with the Head of State’s visit to New York for the United
Nations General Assembly. BAHN intended to use this meeting as
a forum to pitch the Landmark 72 deal directly to the Head of
State,

17. In connection with the Head of State’s visit, on
or about September 18, 2013, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, sent
an email to his supervisors at Firm-1 seeking authorization to
spend $28,000 on “gifts” for the Head of State at this meeting.
This $28,000 was to come out of a $100,000 deposit Keangnam had
sent to Firm-1 to cover brokerage expenses. Attached to the
email was a letter signed by BAN KI SANG, the defendant, on
behalf of Keangnam, authorizing Firm-1 to spend $28,000 on “gift
purchases.” BAHN’s supervisors at Firm-1 refused to authorize
BAHN’s request to spend $28,000 on gifts for the Head of State,
and sent a letter to BAN recommending that he “discuss any
proposed marketing expenses or gift purchases related to the

[Fund] with [Keangnam’s] legal counsel.”
18. In response to this letter, on or about September
24, 2013, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, sent an email to a
supervisor at Firm-1, in which BAHN tried to use his family’s
prominence to authorize the payment of the “gifts” for the Head
of State. BAHN’s email stated, in part: “I sent an email to [a
senior-level supervisor] specifically not to send this letter
until I talk to my father [BAN KI SANG, the defendant]
As I mentioned . .. IF this deal gets done, it gets done purely
pased on our family’s reputation with [the Head of State] .”
Later, on or about September 25, 2013, BAHN sent another email
to his supervisors at Firm-1 in which he reported having
discussed Firm-1’s unwillingness to pay for gifts for the Head
of State with his father, BAN. BAHN’s email stated, in part:
“[TOjJur client [Keangnam] was visibly upset due to our ‘lack of
risk taking’ ... . Our client [Keangnam], especially, my
father [BAN] is upset on the fact that our family is risking our
family’s reputation to make the deal work while [Firm-1] is
Sitting on the sideline ... .”

19. %In addition to attempting to arrange a meeting

with the Head of State of Country-1, on or about September 24,
2013, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, attempted to deliver a
letter to the Head of State concerning the proposed Landmark 72
deal with the Fund while the Head of State was still in New York

for the United Nations General Assembly. This letter, drafted
by BAHN, offered his family’s assurances as to the “stability
and profitability” of Landmark 72. BAHN asked MALCOLM HARRIS,
the defendant, to deliver this letter to the Head of State. On
or about September 25, 2013, HARRIS told BAHN he had delivered
the letter. BAHN’s efforts to pitch the Landmark 72 deal
directly to the Head of State, however, were ultimately
unsuccessful.

20. In or about late 2013 and early 2014, having
failed in his initial efforts to convince the Fund to acquire
Landmark 72 by paying bribes and trading on the prominence of
his family, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, exchanged multiple
emails and text messages with MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant,
concerning Landmark 72. On several occasions, BAHN told HARRIS
that he was “getting pressure” from his client, Keangnam,
regarding the deal and that Keangnam was experiencing “severe
liquidity issues.” HARRIS repeatedly reassured BAHN that he was
in touch with government officials of Country-1 concerning
Landmark 72 and urged BAHN to be patient.

21. On or about February 17, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN and
MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendants, exchanged text messages
concerning Landmark 72, In the text messages, HARRIS claimed
that he was working with a new contact at the Fund, namely
Foreign Official-1. In the text messages, HARRIS told BAHN that

Foreign Official-1 was in a position to influence the Fund's
decision to acquire Landmark 72, but that Foreign Official-1

would require a bribe in order to do so. The text messages
stated, in part:
HARRIS: Dennis - I’ve been working with my new
. contact [in Country-1] for the
past few days .. . and between us .
these guys are all alike ... at

BAHN:

' HARRIS:

BAHN:

least [HARRIS’s former purported
contact in Country-1] was a little more
subtle with his ‘pay-for-play’ approach

the new guy that’s been assigned
to the ‘calendar’ has pretty much.
spelled it out... . that these slots
have a price

Hi Malcolm. Thanks for the feedback.
Please tell him there is a $13,000,000
fee we can collect if this deal closes
with [the Fund] and we are happy to
share the fee with him as long as he
gets us in front of the [Head of State]
and help us get his approval.

I’ve been pushing this angle
trying not to get too frustrated with
this new guy as he truly is holding all
of the cards ... I’m possibly
splitting an appointment ‘gift’ (is
what they call it) with another client
to get the ball rolling on their
project

Ok Malcolm. Whatever works we will
accommodate. If some sort of upfront
payment is needed to secure a meeting
with the [Head of State] and his
approval please ask him and let me know
and I will ask my client how much we
can spend on your new contact.

22. On or about February 25, 2014, MALCOLM HARRIS,

and JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendants, exchanged text messages about

10
the bribe payment that HARRIS represented was sought by Foreign
Official-1. HARRIS told BAHN that the code word for the bribe
payment to Foreign Official-1 was “roses.” BAHN assured HARRIS
‘that Keangnam would “Naccommodate” the bribe payment in order to
close the Landmark 72 deal.

23. In or about March 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN, the
defendant, stopped working at Firm-1 and started working at
Firm-2 in Manhattan. In connection with his employment at Firm-
2, on or about March 6, 2014, BAHN Signed Firm-2’s “FCPA
Prevention of Bribery Policy,” which, among other things,
“prohibits any of its Supervised Persons [including BAHN] from
making any corrupt payment to improperly obtain or retain
business anywhere in the world.” While employed by Firm-2, BAHN
continued to try to broker the sale of Landmark 72 to the Fund.

24. On or about March 7, 2014, MALCOLM HARRIS, the
defendant, forwarded to JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, an email
which purported to be sent by Foreign Official-1, but which was
in fact written by HARRIS, stating that Foreign Official-1 would
require an upfront payment of %250,000 and a payment of $750,000
after the Landmark 72 deal was approved by the Fund. Later that
day, BAHN forwarded this email purporting to be from Foreign
Official-1 to BAN KI SANG, the defendant. Above the forwarded

email, BAHN wrote that Foreign Official-1 could assist Keangnam

11
with the Landmark 72 deal, but that Keangnam would have to pay
“bribes” to obtain such assistance.1

25. On or about March 11, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN, the
defendant, sent MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, an email stating
that if BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendant, “push[ed]” Keangnam
to pay the proposed bribes to Foreign Official-1, the company
would do so. BAHN expressed concerns, however, that if the
Landmark 72 deal ultimately was not approved by the Fund, both
he and BAN would be “put in a sticky situation (almost close to
fraud) " and that in light of their family’s prominence, “any
negative press linking [BAHN and BAN] to anything” would be
“bad.”

26. On or about March 17, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN, the
defendant, forwarded an email purportedly from Foreign Official-
1, but which appears to have been written by BAHN, to BAN KI
SANG, the defendant. The forwarded email proposed that the Fund
acquire Landmark 72 for $700 million. The email purportedly
from Foreign Official-1 further stated: “Once [the] requested
roses are received I will push this deal for approval.” Above |

the forwarded email, BAHN wrote to his father that in order for

 

1 The emails exchanged between BAHN and BAN and other
individuals at Keangnam are substantially in Korean. To the
extent such emails are quoted or paraphrased in this Indictment,
the quotations and paraphrases are English translations of the
original Korean.

12
the deal with the Fund to proceed, a “down payment” from
Keangnam was required. BAHN told BAN that Keangnam either had
to “give him [i.e., Foreign Official-1] the money or Forget
about the whole thing.”

27. On or about April 1, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN, the
defendant, sent an email to MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, which
stated that BAHN “had a very long conversation with Keangnam
regarding Landmark 72” the night before and that Keangnam’ s
creditors were “not happy” with the purported $700 million offer
from the Fund. BAHN told HARRIS that if the Fund increased the
purchase price to $800 million, Keangnam would be willing to
increase the upfront bribe payment to Foreign Official-1 from
$250,000 to $500,000 and pay $2,000,000 to Foreign Official-1
after the deal closed.

28. On or about April 1, 2014, BAN KI SANG, the
defendant, sent an email to JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant,
concerning the proposed structure of the bribe payments, in
which BAN stated that he was “trying to push it through using
any means possible,” but that because Keangnam was “not [his]
company,” BAN was “pushing” another Keangnam executive. In his
email, BAN also asked BAHN: “If we were to send a bonus, are
there any instructions?”

29. On or about April 3, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN, the

defendant, sent an email to MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant,

13
stating that BAHN had received “approval” from Keangnam for the
proposed $800 million offer for Landmark 72 and the "$500,000
upfront” and “$2,000,000 after closing” bribe payments for
Foreign Official-1. BAHN explained to HARRIS that the funds
used to pay the bribe to Foreign Official-1 would, however, have
to be disguised as a legitimate payment from Keangnam.

30. Around the time that Joo YUN BAHN and BAN KI
SANG, the defendants, were negotiating the bribe payments for
Foreign Official-1, BAHN caused Keangnam and Firm-2 to enter
into a written agreement pursuant to which Firm-2 agreed to
broker the sale of Landmark 72 in exchange for a percentage of
the sale price. In addition, Keangnam agreed to pay an advance

“deposit” of $500,000 to Firm-2, which would be credited against

Firm-2's future commission. Under the terms of his employment
with Firm-2, BAHN was entitled to approximately 45 percent of
any commission earned by Firm-2 from the sale of Landmark 72.
As such, if the Fund acquired Landmark 72 for $800 million, BAHN
stood to earn a multi-million-dollar commission. |

31. On or about April 15, 2014 and April 16, 2014,
JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendants, caused Keangnam
to send two wire transfers in the amounts of $410,000 and
$90,000, respectively, from Keangnam’s bank account in South
Korea to Firm-2’s bank account in Manhattan. Using the $500,000

transfer from Keangnam to Firm-2 as collateral, BAHN and CC-1,

14
BAHN’s co-worker at Firm-2, then arranged to borrow $500,000
from CC-1’s business partner in New York to pay the bribe to
Foreign Official-1. Specifically, on or about April 16, 2014,
BAHN and CC-1 caused CC-1’s business partner to write a check
for $500,000 to “Muse Creative Consulting, LLC,” a company
controlled by MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant. The check was
subsequently delivered to HARRIS so that he could deposit it and
pay the upfront bribe to Foreign Official-1 on behalf of BAHN,
BAN, and Keangnam.,

32, On or about April 17, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN, the
defendant, sent an email to MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, in
which BAHN explained that he had disguised the $500,000
transferred by Keangnam to Firm-2 as a “retainer” in order to
get the necessary approvals for the transfer from Keangnam’s
creditors since they could not disclose that the money was for
bribery. BAHN further stated, in part:

Also, since the $500,000 is “illegal” to [al]

certain extent, my father [BAN KI SANG, the

defendant] and myself cannot be involved

directly due to our family ... . Thus, we

had to devise a plan to make everything look

“official/legal” on paper and simultaneously

not get [Keangnam] directly involved with

[the Fund] regarding the “roses” matter. On

paper, Keangnam has retained [Firm-2] to

sell Landmark 72 to [the Fund] and has paid

[Firm-2] $500,000 as a retainer to start the

job. But nobody knows the dealings under
the table.

15
COUNT ONE
(Conspiracy to Violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)

The Grand Jury charges:

33. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32 of this Indictment are repeated and realleged as if fully set
Forth herein.

34, From in or about March 2013 through in or about
May 2015, in the Southern District of New York and elsewhere,
JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendants, and others known
and unknown, willfully and knowingly did combine, conspire,
confederate, and agree together and with each other to commit an
offense against the United States, to wit, to violate the FCPA,
Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2. |

35. It was a part and object of the conspiracy that
JOO HYUN BAHN and’ BAN KI SANG, the defendants, and others known
and unknown, being a domestic concern and aiding and abetting a
domestic concern, would and did willfully make use of the mails
and means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly
in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and
authorization of the payment of any money, and offer, gift,
promise to give, and authorization of the giving of anything of
value to a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that
all and a portion of such money and thing of value would be and ,

had been offered, given, and promised, directly and indirectly,

16
to a foreign official, for purposes of: (1) influencing acts and
decisions of such foreign official in that foreign official's
official capacity; (ii) inducing such foreign official to do and
omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such foreign
official; (iii) securing any improper advantage; and
(iv) inducing such foreign official to use that foreign
official’s influence with a foreign government and
instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and
decisions of such government and instrumentalities, in order to
assist BAHN and CC-1, in obtaining and retaining business for.
and with, and directing business to, BAHN, BAN, Keangnam and
others.
Overt Acts

36. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to effect
the illegal object thereof, the following overt acts, among
others, were committed in the Southern District of New York and
elsewhere:

a. On or about March 7, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN,
the defendant, placed a telephone call from Manhattan to MALCOLM
HARRIS, the defendant, to discuss the payment of bribes to
Foreign Official-1.

b. On or about March 7, 2014, JOO HYUN BAHN,
the defendant, sent an email to BAN KI SANG, the defendant,

which stated that Foreign Official-1 could assist Keangnam in

177
its efforts to convince the Fund to acquire Landmark 72, but
that Keangnam would have to pay “bribes” to obtain Foreign
Official-1'’s assistance,

Cc. On or about April 1, 2014, BAN sent an email
to BAHN which stated that BAN was pushing to obtain approval
from Keangnam to pay the necessary bribes to Foreign Official-1
and asked BAHN if there were any instructions as to how the
bribes should be paid to Foreign Official-1.

d. On or about April 15, 2014, BAHN and BAN
caused Keangnam to send a wire transfer in the amount of
$410,000 from Keangnam’s bank account in South Korea to Firm-2's
bank account in Manhattan.

e, On or about April 16, 2014, BAHN and CC-1
caused CC-1’s business partner in New York to write a check for
$500,000 to Muse Creative Consulting, LLC, which was |
subsequently deposited into a bank account in Manhattan.

(Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.)

COUNTS TWO THROUGH FOUR

 

(Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)
The Grand Jury further charges:
37. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32 and 36 of this Indictment are repeated and realleged as if

fully set forth herein.

18
38. On or about the dates set forth below, in the
Southern District of New York and elsewhere, JOO HYUN BAHN and
BAN KI SANG, the defendants, being a domestic concern and an
officer, director, employee, agent, and shareholder of a
domestic concern, and by aiding and abetting a domestic concern,
willfully used and caused to be used the mails and means and
instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in
furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay, and
authorization of the payment of money, and offer, gift, promise
to give, and authorization of the giving of anything of value to
a foreign official, and to a person, while knowing that all and
a portion of such money and thing of value would be and had been
offered, given, and promised, directly and indirectly, toa
foreign official, for purposes of: (i) influencing acts and
decisions of such foreign official in that foreign official's
official capacity; (11) inducing such foreign official to do and
omit to do acts in violation of the lawful duty of such foreign
official; (iii) securing any improper advantage; and
(iv) inducing such foreign official to use that foreign
official’s influence with a foreign government and
instrumentalities thereof to affect and influence acts and
decisions of such government and instrumentalities, in order to

assist BAHN and CC-1 in obtaining and retaining business for and

19
with, and directing business to, BAHN, BAN, Keangnam, and others

as follows:

 

Count | Date Use of Instrumentality of
Interstate Commerce

 

Two April 15, 2014 A wire transfer of $410,000 from
Keangnam’s bank account in South
Korea to Firm-2’s bank account in
Manhattan.

 

Three | April 16, 2014 A wire transfer of $90,000 from

Keangnam’s bank account in South
Korea to Firm-2'’s bank account in
Manhattan.

 

Four |April 16, 2014 Issuance of a check in the amount
of $500,000 to Muse Creative
Consulting, LLC, which was
deposited into a bank account in
Manhattan and cleared through a

 

 

 

 

 

bank in Virginia.

(Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2; and
Title 18, United States Code, Section 2)

COUNT FIVE
(Money Laundering Conspiracy)

The Grand Jury further charges:

39. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32 and 36 of this Indictment are repeated and realleged as if
fully set forth herein.

40. In or about April 2014, in the Southern District
of New York and elsewhere, JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the
defendants, and others known and unknown, intentionally and
knowingly did combine, conspire, confederate, and agree together
and with each other to commit money laundering, in violation of

Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956 (a) (2) (A).

20
41. It was a part and an object of the conspiracy
that JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendants, and others
known and unknown, would and did knowingly transport, transmit,
and transfer, and attempt to transport, transmit, and transfer a
monetary instrument and funds from a place in the United States
to and through a place outside the United States, and to a place
in the United States from and through a place outside the United
States, with the intent to promote the carrying on of specified
unlawful activity, to wit, a scheme to bribe Foreign Official-1,
in violation of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section
78dd-2.

(Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h).)

COUNT SIX
(Money Laundering)

The Grand Jury further charges:

42, The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32 and 36 of this Indictment are repeated and realleged as if
fully set forth herein.

43. In or about April 2014, in the Southern District
of New York and elsewhere, JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the
defendants, did knowingly transport, transmit, and transfer, and
attempt to transport, transmit, and transfer a monetary
instrument and funds from a place in the United States to and

through a place outside the United States and to a place in the

21
United States from and through a place outside the United
States, with the intent to promote the carrying on of specified
unlawful activity, to wit, a scheme to bribe Foreign Official-1,
in violation of the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section
78dd-2.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956(a) (2) (A) and 2.)

HARRIS’s Scheme to Defraud
-.44,,. From in or about March 2013 through in or about
May 2015, MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, orchestrated a
fraudulent scheme to steal at least $500,000 in bribe money that
JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendants, attempted to pay
to Foreign Official-1 in connection with the Landmark 72 deal.
In furtherance of this scheme, HARRIS drafted and sent emails
and text messages containing numerous misrepresentations to
BAHN, some of which BAHN forwarded to his client, Keangnam. In
addition, HARRIS forged numerous emails bearing Foreign
Official-1’s name, including the emails purportedly sent from
Foreign official-1 to HARRIS described above, which forgeries
HARRIS forwarded to BAHN. In his emails and text messages,
HARRIS misrepresented, among other things, that:
a. HARRIS had engaged in direct personal

communications with Foreign Official-1 and other government
officials of Country-1, including the Head of State of Country-

1, regarding Landmark 72;

22
b. Foreign Official-1 had assisted HARRIS in
closing other multi-million-dollar deals with the Fund in
exchange for bribes; and

Cc. Foreign Official-1 would assist Keangnam in
its efforts to convince the Fund to acquire Landmark 72 for $800
million if Keangnam paid Foreign Official-1 $2.5 million in
bribes.

45. As MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, well knew, none
of these claims was true. In particular, HARRIS never had any
communications with Foreign Official-1 and never paid any bribes
to Foreign Official-1. Rather, HARRIS simply stole the $500,000
in bribe money and spent it on lavish personal expenses.

46. Specifically, on or about April 17, 2014, MALCOLM
HARRIS, the defendant, caused the $500,000 check written by CC-
1's business partner to be deposited into the bank account of
HARRIS’s company, Muse Creative Consulting, LLC, at a bank in
Manhattan. Thereafter, HARRIS spent the fraudulent proceeds on
various personal expenses, including airfare and luxury hotels,
meals at expensive restaurants, furniture, and rent for an
apartment in Manhattan and for a six-month lease of a luxury
penthouse condominium in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Several of
these transactions conducted by HARRIS were in amounts that

exceeded $10,000 each.

23
47, Through at least May 2015, MALCOLM HARRIS, the
defendant, continued to make misrepresentations and created
additional forged emails bearing the name of Foreign Official-1,
which HARRIS sent to JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, in order to
prevent detection of HARRIS's fraudulent scheme. For example,
on or about May 22, 2014, HARRIS forwarded an email to BAHN that
HARRIS had purportedly received from Foreign Official-1, but was
in reality another forgery, reassuring HARRIS of the Fund’s
_ purported commitment to purchase Landmark 72 and requesting
continued patience. Similarly, in or about September 2014,
HARRIS sent BAHN a forged “Letter of Intent” concerning Landmark
72 that HARRIS falsely represented had been sent to him by
Foreign Official-1.

COUNT SEVEN
(Wire Fraud)

The Grand Jury further charges:

48. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32, 36, and 44 through 47 of this Indictment are repeated and
realleged as if fully set forth herein.

49, From in or about March 2013 through in or about
May 2015, in the Southern District of New York and elsewhere,
MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, willfully and knowingly, having
devised and intending to devise a scheme and artifice to

defraud, and for obtaining money and property by means of false

24
and fraudulent pretenses, representations and promises, for the
purpose of executing such scheme and artifice, transmitted and
caused to be transmitted by means of wire communication in
interstate and foreign commerce writings, signs, signals,
pictures, and sounds, to wit, HARRIS used and caused to be used
interstate wires to deceive JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the
defendants, into causing approximately $500,000 to be
transferred to HARRIS for the purported purpose of paying a
bribe to Foreign Official-1.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1343 and 2.)

COUNT EIGHT
(Aggravated Identity Theft)

The Grand Jury further charges:

50. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32, 36, and 44 through 47 of this Indictment are repeated and
realleged as if fully set forth herein.

51. From in or about March 2013 through in or about
May 2015, in the Southern District of New York and. elsewhere,
MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, willfully and knowingly did
transfer, possess, and use, without lawful authority, a means of
identification of another person, during and in relation toa
felony violation enumerated in Title 18, United States Code,
Section 1028A(c), to wit, HARRIS transferred, possessed and

used, without lawful authority, a means of identification,

25
including the name, of Foreign Official-1 on multiple occasions
in furtherance of the wire fraud scheme charged in Count Seven
of this Indictment.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1028A(a) (1),
1028A(c) (5) and 2.)

COUNT NINE
(Money Laundering)

The Grand Jury further charges:

52. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32, °36, and 44 through 47 of this Indictment are repeated and
realleged as if fully set forth herein.

53. From in or about April 2014 through in or about
May 2015, in the Southern District of New York and elsewhere,
MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, in an offense taking place in the
United States, knowingly and willfully engaged in and attempted
to engage in monetary transactions in criminally derived
property that were of a value greater than $10,000, to wit,
payments by cashier’s check and wire transfer of funds in excess
of $10,000 from a bank account under HARRIS’s control, such
property having been derived from a specified unlawful activity,
to wit, proceeds from the wire fraud scheme charged in Count
Seven of this Indictment.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1957(a) and 2).

26
BAHN’s Scheme to Defraud

 

54, From in or about March 2013 through in or about
May 2015, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, engaged in a fraudulent.
scheme against Keangnam and its creditors, to retain the
exclusive right granted to BAHN by his client, Keangnam, to
broker the refinancing or sale of Landmark 72 in exchange for a
multi-million-dollar commission, and to steal a portion of the.
$500,000 Keangnam sent to Colliers in connection with the bribe
payment for Foreign Official-1.

55. In furtherance of the scheme to defraud Keangnam
and its creditors, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, made numerous
misrepresentations in emails that BAHN sent to Keangnam
executives. Among other things, BAHN falsely claimed that he
had telephone conversations with Foreign Official-1 about
Landmark 72, which never occurred, and that BAHN had received
emails and documents relating to Landmark 72 from Foreign
Official-1 and other individuals, which were never drafted or
sent by those parties. As BAHN was well aware, Keangnam
forwarded many of the communications from BAHN containing these
misrepresentations to its creditors, who stood to lose money if
Keangnam failed to sell Landmark 72.

56. As a result of the fraudulent scheme orchestrated
by JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, Keangnam was deprived of

information in connection with its decision-making concerning

27
the company’s finances, its efforts to sell Landmark 72, and its
dealings with its creditors. For example, because BAHN falsely
represented that the deal with the Fund was progressing,
Keangnam did not explore other options for disposing of Landmark
72, which ultimately led to Keangnam’s application for court
receivership in South Korea.

57. As part of the scheme to defraud Keangnam and its
creditors, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, also made
misrepresentations to Keangnam and Firm-2 in order to obtain
approximately $225,000 of the $500,000 that Keangnam had
transferred to Firm-2 in connection with the bribe payment for
Foreign Official-1. BAHN provided a letter dated April 28,
2014, purportedly signed by the Chief Operating Officer of
Keangnam, but which was in fact forged by BAHN, stating that
Firm-2 had “earned” the $500,000 that Keangnam had wired to
Firm-2 and that such money “shall not be refundable.” BAHN had
previously represented to Keangnam, however, that the $500,000
was being held in escrow at Firm-2 pending finalization of the
Landmark 72 deal. Based upon the April 28, 2014 letter, Firm-2
paid BAHN approximately 45 percent, or $225,000, of the $500,000
commission. ‘Approximately $216,666.67 of BAHN’s share of the
commission was paid by Firm-2 with a check dated May 15, 2014,

which was made out to a company controlled by BAHN. Even after

28
BAHN received the $225,000, BAHN continued to misrepresent to
Keangnam that Firm-2 held the entire $500,000 “in escrow.”

58. Beginning in or about June 2014, as Keangnam’s
debt maturity deadlines were approaching, JOO HYUN BAHN, the.
defendant, began forging emails and documents from Foreign
Official-1, the Fund, and other entities and individuals, which
purported to show that the Fund’s acquisition of Landmark 72 was
progressing. BAHN sent these forged documents to Keangnam
executives knowing full well that Keangnam would refrain from
exploring other options for disposing of Landmark 72 if it
believed that the deal with the Fund was going to close.

59. For example, on or about June 30, 2014, JOO HYUN
BAHN, the defendant, sent an email to MALCOLM HARRIS, the
defendant, which stated, in part:

Today is June 30th and I have to give my

clients something. We can’t just sit on it

for [Foreign Official-1] to send us

something.

Therefore, in order to buy time, I am going:

to ‘mock-up’ a letter in [Foreign Official-

1’s] name containing no other information
than what he has already given us via email.

I’m going to have it mocked up as [Foreign
Official-1’s] sending the letter to [Firm-2] ©
and I’ll just forward it to my client so
that they can show it to their creditors.
BAHN then emailed to HARRIS a draft of a letter on purported

letterhead of the Fund and bearing the name, purported

29
signature, and contact information for Foreign Official-1. -The
letter, which was addressed to BAHN and Firm-2, stated, in part:
“As per your request, this letter will fully demonstrate [the
Fund's] . . . intention to acquire [Landmark 72] from your
client, [Keangnam] . . . to satisfy your client’s status report
requirement to its creditors.”

60. Later that day, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant,
drafted and forwarded a fake email, purportedly from Foreign
Official-1, attaching the above-described “mocked-up” letter to
BAN KI SANG, the defendant, and another executive at Keangnam.
Above the forwarded email, BAHN wrote: “Attached is the official
document from [the Fund].” In reliance upon this forged letter,
and as BAHN well knew, Keangnam sought an extension of its debt
maturities from its creditors, for which it incurred substantial
loan extension fees.

61. On or about January 5, 2015, JOO HYUN BAHN, the
defendant, informed MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant, that
Keangnam’s lead creditor had taken control of the company as of
January 1 and had given Firm-2 and BAHN until on or about
February 15, 2015, to close the Landmark 72 deal with the Fund.
BAHN told HARRIS that Keangnam had demanded that Firm-2 return
the $500,000 that Keangnam had wired to Firm-2 in or about April
2014, approximately 45 percent of which BAHN had already

fraudulently caused Firm-2 to pay to BAHN.

30
62. In furtherance of the scheme to defraud Keangnam
and its creditors, on or about January 13, 2015, JOO HYUN BAHN,
the defendant, emailed a bank confirmation letter purportedly
signed by the manager of a branch of a bank located in London,
England (“Bank-1”), but which was in fact forged by BAHN (the
“Forged Bank Letter”), to Keangnam. The Forged Bank Letter
purported to confirm that the Fund had opened an account at
Bank-1 for the purpose of acquiring Landmark 72 and that the
account had on deposit more than $800 million. BAHN sent the
Forged Bank Letter to Keangnam to convince his client that the
Fund was getting close to closing on its acquisition of Landmark
72. In truth, Bank-1 never issued the Forged Bank Letter and
the Fund never had any such account at Bank-1.

63. In furtherance of the scheme to defraud Keangnam
and its creditors, on or about January 28, 2015, JOO HYUN BAHN,
the defendant, registered a fake domain name for an entity
related to the Fund and created a fake email address associated
with that. domain name for Foreign Official-1. The next day,
BAHN used this fake email account to send an email that appeared
to have been sent by Foreign Official-1 to BAHN himself. BAHN
then forwarded this forged email to Keangnam. The email falsely
stated, among other things, that the Fund had submitted
Keangnam’s proposed Landmark 72 sales contract to the Fund’s law

firm in London, England, for review. In reality, the Fund had

31
not retained such law firm and was not considering the Landmark
72 contract. Thereafter, BAHN continued to use the fake email
account to send additional forged emails to Keangnam, which
purported to be from Foreign Official-1 and bore Foreign
Official-1’s name.

64, JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, engaged in the
scheme to defraud Keangnam and its creditors notwithstanding his
recognition of the importance of the Landmark 72 deal to
Keangnam’s viability as a company, as well as to Keangnam’s
creditors. As BAHN wrote in an email to MALCOLM HARRIS, the
defendant, on or about December 14, 2014: “We have the life of
an entire firm and the lives of almost 1,000 employees in our
hands. They need the liquidity from this deal to stay afloat.”
Similarly, on or about March 10, 2015, BAHN wrote to HARRIS:
“([M]y client [Keangnam] is in jeopardy of financial meltdown and
they have till end of March to cure. In all seriousness, they
really will blame [the Fund] for denying them of other
opportunities to sell Landmark 72 due to [the Fund’s] promises
that were made through us.” Nevertheless, BAHN continued to lie
to Keangnam and its creditors regarding the status of the Fund's
purported acquisition of Landmark 72 through at least May 2015.
Ultimately, when Keangnam failed to sell or refinance Landmark
72, the company was forced to enter court receivership in South

Korea.

32
COUNT ELEVEN
(Aggravated Identity Theft)

The Grand Jury further charges:

67. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32, 36, 44 through 47, and 54 through 64 of this Indictment are
repeated and realleged as if fully set forth herein.

| ~68. From in or about March 2013 through in or about

May 2015, in the Southern District of New York and elsewhere,
JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, willfully and knowingly’ did
transfer, possess, and use, without lawful authority, a means of
identification of another person, during and in relation toa
felony violation enumerated in Title 18, United States Code,
Section 1028A(c), to wit, BAHN transferred, possessed and used,
without lawful authority, a means of identification, including
the name, of Foreign Official-1 in furtherance of the wire fraud
scheme charged in Count Ten of this Indictment.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1028A(a) (1),
1028A(c) (5) and 2.)

COUNT TWELVE
(Money Laundering)

The Grand Jury further charges:
69. The allegations set forth in paragraphs 1 through
32, 36, 44 through 47, and 54 through 64 of this Indictment are

repeated and realleged as if fully set forth herein.

34
70. From in or about April 2014 through in or about

May 2014, in the Southern District of New York and elsewhere,
JOO HYUN BAHN, the defendant, in an offense taking place in the
United States, knowingly and willfully engaged in and attempted
to engage in monetary transactions in criminally derived
property that was of a value greater than $10,000, to wit,
payments of funds in excess of $10,000 from Firm-2 to a bank
account under BAHN’s control, and from that bank account to
other locations, such property having been derived from a
specified unlawful activity, to wit, proceeds from the wire
fraud scheme charged in Count Ten of this Indictment.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1957 (a) and 2).

FIRST FORFEITURE ALLEGATION

 

71. Asa result of committing one or thore of the FCPA
offenses alleged in Counts One through Four of this Indictment,
JOO HYUN BAHN and BAN KI SANG, the defendants, shall forfeit to
the United States, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code,
Section 981(a)(1)(C), and Title 28, United States Code, Section
2461, all property, real and personal, which constitutes or is
derived from proceeds traceable to such violations.

SECOND FORFEITURE ALLEGATION

 

72. As a result of committing the wire fraud offenses
alleged in Counts Seven and Ten of this Indictment, JOO HYUN

BAHN, the defendant (as to the offense alleged in Count Ten) and

35
MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant (as to the offense alleged in
Count Seven), shall forfeit to the United States pursuant to
Title 18, United States Code, Section 981(a)(1)(C), and Title
28, United States Code, Section 2461, any and all property, real
and personal, that constitutes or is derived from proceeds
traceable to the commission of such offenses.»

THIRD FORFEITURE ALLEGATION |

 

73, As a result of committing the money laundering
offenses alleged in Counts Five, Six, Nine, and Twelve of this
Indictment, 500 HYUN BAHN, the defendant (as to the offenses
alleged in Counts Five, Six, and Twelve), BAN KI SANG, the
defendant (as to the offenses alleged in Counts Five and Six),
and MALCOLM HARRIS, the defendant (as to the offense alleged in
Count Nine), shall forfeit to the United States, pursuant to
Title 18, United States Code, Section 982(a) (1), any and all
property, real and personal, involved in the such offenses, and
‘any property traceable to such property, and, pursuant to Title
18, United States Code, Section 981(a)(1)(C), and Title 28,
United States Code, Section 2461(c), any and all property, real
or personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds

traceable to the commission of such offenses.

Substitute Asset Provision

 

74. If any of the above-described forfeitable

property, as a result of any act or omission of the defendants:

36
a. cannot be located upon the exercise of due

diligence;

b. has
deposited with, a third

Cc. has
the court;

d, has
or

e. has

been transferred or sold to, or

party;

been placed beyond the jurisdiction of

been substantially diminished in value;

been commingled with other property

which cannot be subdivided without difficulty;

it is the intent of the

United States, pursuant to Title 18,

United States Code, Sections 981 and 982, Title 21, United

States Code, Section 853(p), and Title 28, United States Code,

37
Section 2461, to seek forfeiture of any other property of the
defendants up to the value of the above forfeitable property.

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 981 and 982;
Title 21, United States Code, Sections 853; and
Title 28, United States Code, Section 2461.)

Wy ud () (' PAW Yrockhanaa

FOREPE PREET BHARARA
United States Attorney
\y Southern District of New York

LD,
DREW WEISSMANN
Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division
U.S. Department of Justice

38
 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
=s VV. =
JOO HYUN BAHN,
a/k/a “Dennis Bahn,”
BAN KI SANG, and
MALCOLM HARRIS,

Defendants.

 

SEALED INDICTMENT

 

16 Cr.
(15 U.S.C. § 78ad-2;

18 U.S.C. 88 2, 371, 1028A, 1343,
1956 and 1957.)

PREET BHARARA

 

United States Attorney.

ANDREW WEISSMANN

 

Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division
U.S. Department of Justice.

A TRUE BILL

Swat et _

V
