VAP amt 274 Rote on TYALPS an DYER A RES a r 4 +
LOCUTIENE a Ried yp PAS on OS/O4/ 15 TR EDT Bee

id
"Souther Bowne oF esas
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT MAR 4
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS 2016
MCALLEN DIVISION

David J. Bradley, Clerk
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA §
§
V. § CRIMINALNo, M-}w- 0252
§
RAMIRO ASCENCIO NEVAREZ, §
§
§
Defendant. §
PLEA AGREEMENT

The United States of America, by and through Andrew Weissmann, Chief of the Fraud
Section of the Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice (“Fraud Section”), and
Christopher Cestaro and Kevin R. Gingras, Trial Attorneys, Fraud Section, and Kenneth
Magidson, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, and Jesse Salazar, Assistant
United States Attorney, and Defendant, Ramiro Ascencio Nevarez (“Defendant”), and Defendant’s
counsel, pursuant to Rule 11(c)(1)(A) and 11(c)(1)(B) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
state that they have entered into an agreement, the terms and conditions of which are as follows:

The Defendant’s Agreement

l. Defendant agrees to plead guilty to Count One of the Information. Count One
charges Defendant with conspiracy, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h),
to engage in monetary transactions in property derived from violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, Title 15 United States Code, Section 78dd-2 (“FCPA”), a violation of Title 18,
United States Code, Section 1957(a). Defendant, by entering this plea, agrees that he is waiving
any right to have the facts that the law makes essential to the punishment either charged in an

Indictment or proven to a jury or judge beyond a reasonable doubt.
 

Case 716- Document 3 aC iN TASD on OS/O4/16 Page 2 of 12
Punishment Range
2. The statutory maximum penalty for a violation of Title 18, United States Code,

Section 1956(h) with a Title 18, United States Code, Section 1957(a) object is a term of
imprisonment of not more than ten years and a fine of not more than $250,000 or twice the amount
of the criminally derived property. Additionally, Defendant may receive a term of supervised
release after imprisonment of up to three years. See Title 18, United States Code, Sections
3571(b)(3), 1957(b), and 3583(b)(2). Defendant acknowledges and understands that if he should
violate the conditions of any period of supervised release which may be imposed as part of his
sentence, then Defendant may be imprisoned for the entire term of supervised release, without
credit for time already served on the term of supervised release prior to such violation. See Title
18, United States Code, Sections 3559(a) and 3583(e)(3). Defendant understands that he cannot
have the imposition or execution of the sentence suspended, nor is he eligible for parole.
Mandatory Special Assessment

3. Pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3013(a)(2)(A), immediately after
sentencing, Defendant will pay to the Clerk of the United States District Court a special assessment
in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per count of conviction.

Immigration Consequences

4, Defendant recognizes that pleading guilty may have consequences with respect to
his immigration status if he is not a citizen of the United States. Defendant understands that if he
is not a citizen of the United States, by pleading guilty he may be removed from the United States,
denied citizenship, and denied admission to the United States in the future. Defendant’s attorney
has advised Defendant of the potential immigration consequences resulting from Defendant’s plea

of guilty.
on “a4
fee Ft thoes >

ASO F wpe Pal a
ALR OFLA tL

The United States’ Agreements

5. The United States agrees to each of the following:

(a)

(b)

At the time of sentencing, the United States agrees not to oppose
Defendant’s anticipated request to the Court and the United States Probation
Office that he receive a two-level downward adjustment under Section
3El.I(a) of the Sentencing Guidelines should Defendant accept
responsibility as contemplated by the Sentencing Guidelines; and

If Defendant qualifies for an adjustment under U.S.S.G. Section 3E1.1(a)
and Defendant’s offense level is 16 or greater, the United States may move
for an additional one-level downward adjustment based on the timeliness of
the plea or the expeditious manner in which Defendant provided complete
information regarding his role in the offense.

Agreement Binding Only U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas
and U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section

6. The United States agrees that it will not further criminally prosecute Defendant in

the Southern District of Texas for offenses arising from conduct charged in the Information. This

Plea Agreement binds only the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas;

the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section; and Defendant. It does

not bind any other United States Attorney or any other component or unit of the Department of

Justice. The United States will bring this Plea Agreement to the attention of other prosecuting

offices if requested.

United States’ Non-Waiver of Appeal

7. The United States reserves the right to carry out its responsibilities under the

Sentencing Guidelines. Specifically, the United States reserves the right to:

(a)

(b)
(c)

Bring its version of the facts of this case, including its evidence file and
any investigative files, to the attention of the Probation Office in
connection with that office’s preparation of a presentence report;

Set forth or dispute sentencing factors or facts material to sentencing;

Seek resolution of such factors or facts in conference with Defendant’s
Case 7il6-cr-00252 Document3i Filed in TXSD on OS/O4/16 Page 4 of 12
counsel and the Probation Office;
(d) File a pleading relating to these issues, in accordance with U.S.S.G.

Section 6A1.2 and Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553(a); and
(e) Appeal the sentence imposed or the manner in which it was determined.
Sentence Determination

8. Defendant is aware that the sentence will be imposed after consideration of the
Sentencing Guidelines, which are only advisory, as well as the provisions of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 3553(a). Defendant nonetheless acknowledges and agrees that the Court has
authority to impose any sentence up to and including the statutory maximum set for the offense(s)
to which Defendant pleads guilty, and that the sentence to be imposed is within the sole discretion
of the sentencing judge after the Court has consulted the applicable Sentencing Guidelines.
Defendant understands and agrees the parties’ positions regarding the application of the
Sentencing Guidelines do not bind the Court, and that the sentence imposed is within the discretion
of the sentencing judge. Ifthe Court should impose any sentence up to the maximum established
by statute, or should the Court order any or all of the sentences imposed to run consecutively,
Defendant cannot, for that reason alone, withdraw a guilty plea, and will remain bound to fulfill

all of the obligations under this Plea Agreement.

Waiver of Rights
9. Defendant represents to the Court that he is satisfied that his attorney has rendered
effective assistance. Defendant understands that by entering into this Agreement, he surrenders
certain rights as provided in this Plea Agreement. Defendant understands that those rights include
the following:

(a) Defendant understands that he has the right to have the facts of this case

presented to a federal grand jury, consisting of between sixteen and twenty-
three citizens, twelve of whom would have to find probable cause to believe
10.

(b)

(c)

(d)

 

that he committed the offense set forth in the information before an
indictment could be returned. Defendant acknowledges that he is
knowingly and intelligently waiving his right to be indicted.

If Defendant persisted in a plea of not guilty to the charges, Defendant
would have the right to a speedy jury trial with the assistance of counsel.
The trial may be conducted by a judge sitting without a jury if Defendant,
the United States, and the court all agree.

Ata trial, the United States would be required to present witnesses and other
evidence against Defendant. Defendant would have the opportunity to
confront those witnesses and his attorney would be allowed to cross-
examine them. In turn, Defendant could, but would not be required to,
present witnesses and other evidence on his own behalf. If the witnesses
for Defendant would not appear voluntarily, he could require their
attendance through the subpoena power of the court.

Ata trial, Defendant could rely on a privilege against self-incrimination and
decline to testify, and no inference of guilt could be drawn from such refusal
to testify. However, if Defendant desired to do so, he could testify on his
own behalf.

Factual Basis for Guilty Plea

Defendant is pleading guilty because he is guilty of the charges contained in Count

One of the Information. If this case were to proceed to trial, the United States could prove each
element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt. The following facts, among others, would be

offered to establish Defendant’s guilt:

“The Foreign Public University” was a public state university of “Foreign State,” one of

the thirty-one states that comprise Mexico. The Foreign Public University was controlled by

Foreign State government and performed a public function of Foreign State.

From at least in or around 2012 to in or around January 2016, RAMIRO ASCENCIO

NEVAREZ (“ASCENCIO”) was an employee of The Foreign Public University with

responsibility for maintaining its aircraft.

“Aviation Corporation A” was a United States company, headquartered in Brownsville,
on “364

PPee ey Pb ese PAPE
arte F Boer Tae y

ARR OF A LS RR ee

Texas, which provided maintenance, repair, overhaul, and related services to customers in the
United States and Mexico, including to The Foreign Public University.

“Executive |” was a citizen of the United States and a resident of Texas. Executive | was
an employee of Aviation Corporation A from in or around 1975 to at least in or around January
2016.

“Executive 2” was a citizen of the United States and a resident of Texas. Executive 2 was
the Director of Maintenance of Aviation Corporation A from in or around 1978 through at least in
or around January 2016.

From in or around 2012 through at least in or around May 2015, United States citizens,
including Executive 1, Executive 2, and others, knowingly, willfully, and corruptly agreed to make
payments to ASCENCIO to influence ASCENCIO in his official capacity and to secure an
improper advantage for their company, Aviation Corporation A, located in the Southern District
of Texas, in order to assist Aviation Corporation A in obtaining and retaining business with The
Foreign Public University.

From in or around 2012 through at least in or around May 2015, ASCENCIO knowingly
and willfully conspired with individuals known and unknown, including Executive | and others,
to use the proceeds of the bribery scheme to engage in monetary transactions from U.S. bank
accounts that affected interstate commerce and were of a value greater than $10,000.

For example, on or about November 29, 2012, ASCENCIO, Executive 1, and others
knowingly and willfully used, and caused to be used, the proceeds of the bribery scheme to issue
a $30,000 check payable to ASCENCIO from Aviation Corporation A’s bank account in the
Southern District of Texas, and ASCENCIO later deposited that check into his bank account in

the Southern District of Texas.
In furtherance of the conspiracy, ASCENCIO and his co-conspirators, including Executive
| and others, knowingly and willfully used, and caused to be used, the proceeds of the bribery
scheme to engage in monetary transactions in excess of $10,000 totaling at least $138,234.60.

Breach of Plea Agreement

Il. If Defendant should fail in any way to fulfill completely all of the obligations under
this Plea Agreement, the United States will be released from its obligations under the Plea
Agreement, and Defendant’s plea and sentence will stand. If at any time Defendant retains,
conceals or disposes of assets in violation of this Plea Agreement, or if Defendant knowingly
withholds evidence or is otherwise not completely truthful with the United States, then the United
States may move the Court to set aside the guilty plea and reinstate prosecution. Any information
and documents that have been disclosed by Defendant, whether prior to or subsequent to this Plea
Agreement, and all leads derived therefrom, will be used against Defendant in any prosecution.

Restitution, Forfeiture, and Fines — Generally

12. This Plea Agreement is being entered into by the United States on the basis of
Defendant’s express representation that he will make a full and complete disclosure of all assets
over which he exercises direct or indirect control, or in which he has any financial interest.
Defendant agrees not to dispose of any assets or take any action that would effect a transfer of
property in which he has an interest, unless Defendant obtains the prior written permission of the
United States.

13. Defendant agrees to make a complete financial disclosure by truthfully executing a
sworn financial statement (Form OBD-500 or similar form) within [4 days of signing this plea
agreement. Defendant agrees to authorize the release of all financial information requested by the

United States, including, but not limited to, executing authorization forms permitting the United
States to obtain tax information, bank account records, credit histories, and social security
information. Defendant agrees to discuss and answer any questions by the United States relating
to Defendant’s complete financial disclosure.

14. Defendant agrees to take all steps necessary to pass clear title to forfeitable assets
to the United States and to assist fully in the collection of restitution and fines, including, but not
limited to, surrendering title, executing a warranty deed, signing a consent decree, stipulating to
facts regarding the transfer of title and the basis for the forfeiture, and signing any other documents
necessary to effectuate such transfer. Defendant also agrees to direct any banks which have
custody of his assets to deliver all funds and records of such assets to the United States.

15. Defendant understands that forfeiture, restitution, and fines are separate
components of sentencing and are separate obligations.

Forfeiture

16. Defendant stipulates and agrees that the factual basis for his guilty plea supports
the forfeiture of at least $138,234.60 against him and in favor of the United States, and Defendant
agrees to the imposition of a personal money judgment for that amount against him and in favor
of the United States of America. Defendant stipulates and admits that one or more of the conditions
set forth in Title 21, United States Code, section 853(p), exists. Defendant agrees to forfeit any of
his property, or his interest in property, up to the value of any unpaid portion of the money
judgment, until the money judgment is fully satisfied.

17. Defendant agrees to waive any and all interest in any asset which is the subject of

a related administrative or judicial forfeiture proceeding, whether criminal or civil, federal or state.
Case 7il6-cr-00252 Document3i Filed in TXSD on OS/O4/16 Page 9 of 12
18. Defendant consents to the order of forfeiture becoming final as to Defendant

immediately following this guilty plea, pursuant to Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure
32.2(b)(4)(A).

19. Defendant waives any requirements of Rules 7, 32.2, and 43(a) of the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure regarding forfeiture, including notice of the forfeiture in the information,
announcement of the forfeiture at sentencing, and incorporation of the forfeiture in the judgement.
Defendant understands that the personal money judgment referenced in Paragraph 16 above is part
of the sentence that may be imposed in this case.

20. Defendant waives the right to challenge forfeiture in any manner, including by
direct appeal or in a collateral proceeding.

Fines

21. Defendant understands that under the Sentencing Guidelines the Court is permitted
to order Defendant to pay a fine that is sufficient to reimburse the government for the costs of any
imprisonment or term of supervised release, if any. Defendant agrees that any fine imposed by the
Court will be due and payable immediately, and Defendant will not attempt to avoid or delay
payment. Defendant waives the right to challenge the fine in any manner, including by direct
appeal or in a collateral proceeding.

Complete Agreement

22. This written Plea Agreement, consisting of 12 pages, including the attached
addendum of Defendant and his attorney, constitutes the complete Plea Agreement between the
United States, Defendant, and his counsel. No promises or representations have been made by the
United States except as set forth in writing in this Plea Agreement. Defendant acknowledges that

no threats have been made against him and that he is pleading guilty freely and voluntarily because
cD
Seett

he is guilty.

23. Any modification of this Plea Agreement must be in writing and signed by all

parties.

Filed at Melle ____, Texas, on Mack f , 20L6.

/
Defendant

 

   

 

   

APPROVED:
KENNETH MAGIDSON ANDREW WEISSMANN
United States Attorney Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division
Department of Justice
By: Gr
JESSE JALAZAR CHRISTOPHER CES O
ssistdant United States Attorney KEVIN R. GINRGAS
outhern District of Texas Trial Attorneys
Telephone: 956.992.9424 United States Department of Justice

Criminal Division, Fraud Section
Telephone: 202.714.0735

By: 4 - Serr
ROGELIO SOLIS, ESQ.
Attorney for Defendant

10
Puasaey et
eset
WAI Of

elt
feet

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
MCALLEN DIVISION

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CRIMINAL NO.

V.

RAMIRO ASCENCIO NEVAREZ,

CO? (On CO? LOD UO 60D OD COD

Defendant.

PLEA AGREEMENT - ADDENDUM

I have fully explained to Defendant his rights with respect to the Information. I have
reviewed the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual and
Policy Statements and | have fully and carefully explained to Defendant the provisions of those
Guidelines which may apply in this case. I have also explained to Defendant that the Sentencing
Guidelines are only advisory and the court may sentence Defendant up to the maximum allowed
by statute per count of conviction. Further, | have carefully reviewed every part of this Plea
Agreement with Defendant. To my knowledge, Defendant’s decision to enter into this Agreement

is an informed and voluntary one.

he. Sour 3Jo4] i

Attorney for Defendant Date

 

 

I have consulted with my attorney and fully understand all my rights with respect to the
Information pending against me. My attorney has fully explained and | understand all my rights

with respect to the provisions of the United States Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual

1
 

which may apply in my case. I have read and carefully reviewed every part of this Plea Agreement

with my attorney. I understand this Agreement and I voluntarily agree to its terms.

2 <= Z/o4] It
A ~ Date

12
