Case 1:20-cv-02386-JRS-MJD Document9 Filed 10/01/20 Page 1 of 19 PagelD #: 69

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA
INDIANAPOLIS DIVISION

BUREAU OF CONSUMER
FINANCIAL PROTECTION,

Plaintiff,
V.

PEAKS Trust 2009-1; Deutsche
Bank National Trust Company,
solely in its capacity as lender
trustee of the PEAKS Trust 2009-1;
Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Delaware, solely in its capacity as
owner trustee of PEAKS Trust
2009-1; Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas, solely in its
capacity as indenture trustee and
collateral agent;

Case No. 1:20-CV-2386-JRS-MJD

Nee Noe Nee Nee Ne ee eee eee eee “ee” Ne”

Defendants.

 

STIPULATED FINAL JUDGMENT AND ORDER

Plaintiff, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“Bureau’’),
commenced this civil action (“Action”) on September 15, 2020 to obtain

relief from PEAKS Trust 2009-1 (“PEAKS”), a Delaware statutory trust,
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company (“DBNTC’”), solely in its capacity
as lender trustee of PEAKS, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Delaware
(“DBTCD”), solely in its capacity as owner trustee of PEAKS, and Deutsche
Bank Trust Company Americas (““DBTCA”), solely in its capacity as
indenture trustee and collateral agent of PEAKS (collectively “Defendants,”
as defined below). The Bureau brought its Complaint (“Complaint”) under
sections 1031(a), 1036(a), 1054(a), and 1055 of the Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010 (“CFPA”), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a), 5564(a),
and 5565, alleging violations of section 1036(a)(3) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §
5536(a)(3), which prohibits any person from providing substantial assistance
to a covered person or service provider engaging in unfair, deceptive, or
abusive acts or practices.

The Bureau and the Defendants (together, the “Parties””) have agreed
to settle the Bureau’s claims against Defendants and, by and through their
counsel, request that this Court enter this Stipulated Final Judgment and

Order (‘Order’).
Case 1:20-cv-02386-JRS-MJD Document9 Filed 10/01/20 Page 3 of 19 PagelD #: 71

DEFINITIONS

In addition to the definitions set forth in the provisions above, the

following definitions apply to this Order:

1.

“Affected Consumer” means any student borrower who received a
Loan (as defined below) that was not paid in full as of the Effective
Date (as defined below).

“Consumer Information” means identifying information obtained by
Defendants about any individual consumer in connection with the
PEAKS Private Student Loan Program (as defined below), including
that consumer’s name, address, telephone number, email address,
social security number, or any data that enables access to any account
of that consumer (including a credit card, bank account, or other
financial account). Consumer Information does not include any
compilation or summary of Consumer Information if such compilation
or summary does not include identifying information of individual
consumers.

“Consumer Reporting Agency” has the same meaning as set forth in
the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1681a(f).

“Defendants” means PEAKS, and each of its successors and assigns,

3
and DBNTC, DBTCD, and DBTCA, in their respective capacities as
lender trustee, owner trustee, and indenture trustee and collateral
agent, and each of their successors and assigns.

“Effective Date” means the date on which this Order is issued.
“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director for the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau, or his/her delegee.

“ITT” means ITT Educational Services, Inc.

“Loan” means one of the private student loans entered into by or
originated to students of ITT schools by a third party pursuant to the
PEAKS Private Student Loan Program (as defined below) and
purchased by PEAKS, including active loans and defaulted loans.
“PEAKS Private Student Loan Program” means the private student
loan program which provided funding for students attending ITT
schools established pursuant to a loan origination and sale agreement
between the bank that originated loans to ITT students, ITT, PEAKS,
and DBNTC, as lender trustee; a servicing agreement between
PEAKS, DBTCA, as indenture trustee and collateral agent, ITT, and
the Servicer; as well as an indenture and credit agreement and the
PEAKS 2009-1 statutory trust agreement, to which DBTCA, as

4
Case 1:20-cv-02386-JRS-MJD Document9 Filed 10/01/20 Page 5 of 19 PagelD #: 73

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

indenture trustee and collateral agent, and DBTCD, as owner trustee,
respectively, were parties.
‘“Redress Plan” means the comprehensive written plan for the
Defendants’ implementation of this Order.
“Servicer” means the third party contracted by PEAKS to perform
servicing of the Loans, including performing all collections actions
and acceptance of payments related to the Loans.

FINDINGS
This Court has jurisdiction over the Parties and the subject matter of
the Action.
The Complaint alleges claims upon which, if the Bureau were to
prevail, relief may be granted under the CFPA. The relief provided in
this Order is appropriate and available pursuant to sections 1054 and
1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5564 and 5565.
The Parties agree to entry of this Order, without adjudication of any
issue of fact or law, to settle and to resolve all matters arising from the
conduct alleged in the Complaint.
Defendants neither admit nor deny any of the allegations in the
Complaint except that, for the purposes of this Order, Defendants

5
16.

17.

18.

admit the facts necessary to establish this Court’s jurisdiction over
them and over the subject matter of the Action.

PEAKS is an entity that was created for the PEAKS Private Student
Loan Program for the purposes of, among other things, purchasing
and holding beneficial ownership of the Loans. In connection with the
PEAKS Private Student Loan Program, DBNTC, as lender trustee,
holds legal title to the Loans on behalf of and for the benefit of
PEAKS. Subject to certain conditions and limitations contained in
certain PEAKS Private Student Loan Program agreements, servicing
of the Loans is performed by the Servicer. PEAKS and the other
Defendants will take the actions in this Order with respect to the
Loans in accordance with their roles and responsibilities in the
program documents, including, where applicable, acting through
agents and contractors including the Servicer

The current balance of the Loans, including principal, outstanding
interest, and outstanding fees, is approximately $330 million.

PEAKS has not acquired, and will not acquire, loans other than the
Loans, does not conduct business other than the PEAKS Private
Student Loan Program, and intends to cease conducting that business

6
Case 1:20-cv-02386-JRS-MJD Document9 Filed 10/01/20 Page 7 of 19 PagelD #: 75

19.

20.

upon the completion of its obligations as set out in this Order. Given
that PEAKS will not conduct any additional business, the Bureau has
agreed not to seek injunction, compliance, and reporting requirements
beyond those specified in this Order.
Defendants waive service under Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure and waive all rights to seek judicial review of or
otherwise to challenge or to contest the validity of this Order.
Defendants also waive any claim they may have under the Equal
Access to Justice Act, 28 U.S.C. § 2412, concerning the prosecution
of the Action to the date of this Order.
Entry of this Order is in the public interest.

ORDER

I.

ORDER TO CEASE AND DESIST AND
TO TAKE OTHER AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

IT IS ORDERED that:

21.

As of the Effective Date :
a. PEAKS will terminate all collections activities and terminate
the acceptance of payments from consumers related to any

Loan; and
b. Defendants will take no further action, directly or through any
agent or contractor, to enforce or to collect any Loan.

c. Notwithstanding the requirements of subparagraphs (a) and (b)
of this Paragraph, Defendants will not be regarded as in
violation of this Order if they or the Servicer send out routine
statements or notices that could be considered collection
activity within 20 days after the Effective Date; nor will
Defendants be regarded as in violation of this Order in the event
that a payment from a consumer related to any Loan is
discovered to have been accepted or processed after the
Effective Date, provided that Defendants or the Servicer make
efforts to return the payment to the consumer as specified in the
Redress Plan.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, PEAKS, DBNTC, as lender
trustee, and DBTCA, as indenture trustee and collateral agent, will
discharge and cancel all outstanding balances of all Affected
Consumers’ Loan accounts, including associated fees, charges, and
interest.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, PEAKS will cause the Servicer

8
24.

25.

to submit written requests to all Consumer Reporting Agencies to
which Defendants or the Servicer has reported information about the
Affected Consumers’ Loans, directing those Consumer Reporting
Agencies to delete the consumer trade lines associated with the
Affected Consumers’ Loans by updating those consumer trade lines
with the appropriate codes to reflect that each of those consumer trade
lines has been deleted and, if an explanation is required, with the
codes referencing a negotiated court settlement.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, PEAKS will send notifications
to the Affected Consumers, by first class mail to the most recently
available postal address contained in the Servicer’s system of record
for each Affected Consumer, informing them of the new status of their
Loans, and the requested updated status of the credit reporting related
to their Loans, consistent with this Order.

Except as and to the extent provided herein and in the Redress Plan,
Defendants will relinquish all dominion, control, and title to all Loan
payments made after the Effective Date. No part of those funds may

be retained by Defendants.
26.

27.

In the event that Loan payments made after the Effective Date are
Unreturnable Funds as defined in the Redress Plan, Defendants will
pay any such funds to the Bureau, by wire transfer to the Bureau or to
the Bureau’s agent, according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The Bureau may make continued attempts to distribute those funds to
consumers. If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that such
additional distribution is wholly or partially impracticable or
otherwise inappropriate, or if funds remain after the additional
distribution is completed, the Bureau will deposit the remaining
unreturnable funds with the United States Treasury as a miscellaneous
receipt. Defendants will have no right to challenge any actions that the
Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.

Upon the Effective Date, Defendants will promptly begin
implementation of the Redress Plan. The Enforcement Director has
reviewed the Redress Plan and has made a determination of non-
objection. Defendants will implement and adhere to the steps,
recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Redress

Plan.

10
TMF APA SIAN
ge TOGO SR TRS
‘ RPL A et OC a PSD

28. The Redress Plan, among other things:

a. Specifies how Defendants or the Servicer will notify Affected
Consumers, consistent with this Order, of (1) the new status of
their Loans and (11) the request to the Consumer Reporting
Agencies for updated status of the credit reporting related to
their Loans.

b. Provides an exemplar of written communications to be sent to
Affected Consumers regarding their Loans or the redress
provided in this Order.

c. Identifies a Servicer telephone number that will be active for
150 days after the Effective Date to assist Affected Consumers
who have questions about the status of their Loan accounts, and
describes the types of questions to which the Servicer will be
prepared to respond.

d. Specifies the efforts that Defendants and the Servicer will
undertake to prevent any payment made on a Loan from being
accepted after the Effective Date, and the methods by which
Defendants and the Servicer will attempt to return to the payor
any payment received after the Effective Date.

1]

5 ES, a ae yeas g » TAR Se ~ a et co — a Mo oe
£ AAS Mionscss cman’ O Pikes POV AT PON Mana tt) mf TO Darnall #- 7
Sigs gag a gb Say pseer se Bee Be s s aan : ye oat + sok as tet ee RS PRA fun Neo
Peas Ly RA SRL EPS IR ER Ao PRES A OP AS a ae TU CAUARS Wh ASP uae PU CARR Gh Pel oF
29. Defendants may not condition the cancellation or discharge of debt, or
the return of any payment made after the Effective Date, on any
Affected Consumer or any person who made payments on the Loans
waiving any right.

I.
CONSUMER INFORMATION

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

30. Defendants, and their officers, employees, representatives, and agents
who receive actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not disclose, use, or benefit from Consumer
Information, except as follows:

a. Consumer Information may be disclosed if requested by a
government agency or required by law, regulation, or court
order; and

b. Consumer Information may be used to effectuate and to carry

out the obligations set forth in this Order.

12
- omer ~ A SPM RATER ORS CN rhe aia ine ne
ee TOO Le AD PO.AA TS Pincaament & Evian TOAIITEO Bane T3 nb TO Panel 84
Rae es PViAs he Ra SLEEPERS ERR At PoRSRL AA LARS whl Se Y CAAA Jha 2 atene Ff aXe Sha PIR LS

me :
wh Boh ET ka See
Vea OO Oe i

Ul.

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

31.

32.

Defendants will notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
their compliance with obligations arising under this Order, including
but not limited to dissolution, assignment, sale or merger of PEAKS,
or other action that would result in the emergence of a successor entity
to PEAKS; the creation of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate of PEAKS
that engages in any acts or practices subject to this Order; the filing of
any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by or against PEAKS; a
change in PEAKS’s name or address; or any change in the status of
DBNTC, DBTCD, or DBTCA in their capacity as lender trustee,
owner trustee, or indenture trustee and collateral agent of PEAKS.
Defendants will provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 120 days of the Effective Date, Defendants will submit to the
Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report
that:

13
@ LOd-cy-O? pee

PUy es 2 A WTS Re ue, ween ow ee meebo Cb a ee ena ese mom, “a ak ae _ wea a Li ryt
YOST RATDS Mineciament & Fudan TAIT OR Bane Ta ab iO Panalf # 8?
oP OOS SN Ra ASR REE DEAS EEE as PORSRL AA UA AS a ee Y CAQANS Lk 2 ane FO CALRLL A TR. fo

a. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Defendants
have complied with this Order; and
b. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section IV of this Order, unless previously submitted to the
Bureau.
IV.

ORDER DISTRIBUTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

33.

34.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Defendants will deliver a copy
of this Order to the Servicer and to any manager, employee, service
provider, or other agent or representative who has responsibilities
related to compliance with this Order.

Defendants will secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging
receipt of a copy of this Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons and entities receiving a

copy of this Order under Paragraph 33 hereof.

14
- omer ~ A SPM RATER ORS CN rhe aia ine a ar kN ON eS LA
ee TOO Le AD MQAA TS Pineciamoant & Elland TAAATFe OR Rane TR Af TS Darnall # Ra
Rar fe Re PViAs he Ra SLEEPERS ERR At POORER AA LAE AS a P CAUAND Lh ASP Aba PU CARA Pale Pr. faa

me :
wh Boh ET ka See
Vea OO Oe i

V.

RECORDKEEPING

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

35.

36.

For three years from the Effective Date, Defendants will maintain all
documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with
this Order, including all submissions made to the Bureau pursuant to
Paragraph 32(a) hereof.
Defendants must make the documents identified in Paragraph 35
hereof available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

VI.

NOTICES

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

37.

Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Defendants will
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other

documents relating to this Order that need to be sent to the Bureau in
writing, with the subject line, “Re: PEAKS Trust 2009-1, Case No.
1:20-CV-2386 (S.D. Ind.),” and will send those materials by overnight
courier or first class mail to the below address and contemporaneously
by email to:

15
Assistant Director for Enforcement
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement
1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20552
VIL.
COOPERATION WITH THE BUREAU

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

38. Defendants will cooperate fully with the Bureau in this matter and in
any Bureau investigation related to or associated with the conduct
alleged in the Complaint. Defendants will provide truthful and
complete non-privileged, non-work product information, evidence,
and testimony. Defendants will appear and will cause their officers,

employees, representatives, or agents to appear for interviews,

discovery, hearings, trials, and any other proceedings that the Bureau

reasonably may request upon 10 business days written notice, or other

reasonable notice, at such places and times as the Bureau may
designate, without the service of compulsory process.
39. Nothing in this Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil

investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6, examinations under
16
Aree EN ON BAS ~ . of eet + og INA Ime ~ a“ coe OTS ae soe
OP RSE MEO LAA TS Pmepoment O Evia Toft Pans 1? af 14 Panel # &h
Pe OCS Row MLE PRD PL PURRET A UP AS a a? PU CRU Ro AGP GE PP eRe PR, Co

Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure 2004, or any other discovery
device available under federal statute or the Bankruptcy Code, 11
U.S.C. § 101 et seg., subject to Defendants’ ability to seek a
protective order.

VIII.

RELEASE

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

40.

The Bureau releases and discharges PEAKS, DBNTC solely in its
capacity as lender trustee of PEAKS, DBTCD solely in its capacity as
owner trustee of PEAKS, and DBTCA solely in its capacity as
indenture trustee and collateral agent of PEAKS, from all potential
liability for violations of law that the Bureau has or might have
asserted based on the practices described in the Complaint, to the
extent such practices occurred before the Effective Date and the
Bureau knows about them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may
use the practices described in the Complaint in future enforcement
actions against Defendants, including, without limitation, to establish
a pattern or practice of violations or the continuation of a pattern or
practice of violations or to calculate the amount of any penalty. This

17
RP ne INO f FPS SS RATES Tee cee ew en Peet at POA PN Toe TSP WE TO Manes d RR Ah. Oot
ae TO ley AO SRA POncuiment &@ Fearn TOMATO Pane TR mt 1& BPanalifl #
Ree LE PY ias LY Ral LPL Lt < +

41.

ts

~e
Pack e :
ah Ey ARSE Tas Se ~ akg a ~ ~ . 4 -~ > fate >
Veale GOS OD MAPPING Gk AS PURRET A UP AS a a? PCARRD 0) ASP AL PU CAL PP CA}
a x

release does not preclude or affect any right of the Bureau to
determine and ensure compliance with this Order, or to seek penalties
for any violations of this Order.

This Order will not prejudice or otherwise negatively affect the
Bureau’s claims against any other party. Nothing in this Order will be
deemed to preclude the Bureau from pursuing claims against other

parties based on the practices described in the Complaint.

IX.

MISCELLANEOUS

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

42.

43.

Each of the Parties is responsible for its own costs and expenses,
including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section X hereof, any time limit for
performance fixed by this Order may be extended by mutual written
agreement of the Parties and without further Court approval.
Additionally, details related to the administration of Sections III
through VIII of the Order may be modified by written agreement of
the Parties and without further Court approval. Any other

18
Case 1:20-cv-02386-JRS-MJD Document9 Filed 10/01/20 Page 19 of 19 PagelD #: 87

modification to this Order may be made only upon approval of the

Court, upon motion by either of the Parties.
X.
RETENTION OF JURISDICTION
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
44. This Court will retain jurisdiction over matters pertaining to this Order

for purposes of its construction, modification, and enforcement.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

Date: 10/1/2020 Lok Scion

TAMES R. SWEENEY II, J UDGE
United States District Court
Southern District of Indiana

Roger A.G. Sharpe, Clerk

BY: Kus fears,

Deputy Clerk, U.S. District Court

19
