cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Debt Collector for Engaging in
Deceptive Debt Collection Practices in Three States

DEC 08, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against RAB Performance Recoveries, LLC (RAB) for threatening to sue and
suing consumers to collect debts where it did not have a legally required license to do so.
Through 2012, RAB, a New Jersey company, purchased and collected consumer debts from
debt brokers, and through August 2014, it used collections law firms to obtain judgments
against consumers. RAB has continued to collect on those judgments against consumers as
well as on a handful of payment agreements it obtained from debtors. The Bureau found
that during the period that RAB was obtaining judgments against consumers, RAB
threatened to sue, sued, and demanded payment from consumers in Connecticut, New
Jersey, and Rhode Island even though RAB did not hold the licenses that those states
required to sue to collect debts. Thus, RAB was not legally entitled to take the actions that it
threatened to take against consumers in those states. The Bureau found that RAB
misrepresented that it had a legally enforceable right to recover payments from consumers
in these states through the judicial process in violation of the Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act (FDCPA) and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA).

The consent order prohibits RAB from collecting on the judgments against, or payment
agreements from, consumers it obtained in Connecticut, New Jersey, and Rhode Island
when RAB did not hold a required debt-collection license in those states. It also requires
RAB to take all necessary steps to vacate those judgments and suspend collection of those
judgments and to notify consumers with payment agreements that they have been satisfied.
The consent order also requires RAB to pay a $204,000 civil money penalty.

A copy of the consent order is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_rab-performance-recoveries-
Ilc_consent-order_2020-12.pdf Ml (cfpb.gov/documents/9399/cfpb_rab-performance-recov
eries-llc_consent-order_2020-12.pdf).

 

 

ttt

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
