Case 1:20-mj-00498-RML Document5 Filed 07/20/20 Page 1 of 12 PagelD #: 17

AES: JN
F. #2020R00016

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

wee eee ee ee ee ee eee eee eee xX

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMENDED COMPLAINT AND AFFIDAVIT

- against - IN SUPPORT OF AN APPLICATION FOR

ARREST WARRANTS

LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES

and RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI (T. 18, U.S.C., §§ 1956(a)(1)(B)(i), 1956(h),

LINARES, 1957 and 2)

Defendants. No. 20-M-498

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, SS:

MICHAEL LEWANDOWSKI, being duly sworn, deposes and says that he is a
Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), duly appointed according to law
and acting as such.!

Upon information and belief, in or about and between August 2009 and
September 2015, both dates being approximate and inclusive, within the Eastern District of New
York and elsewhere, the defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO
ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES, together with others, did knowingly and intentionally

conspire to commit offenses under Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956 and 1957, to wit:

 

On June 27, 2020, the Honorable Robert M. Levy signed a complaint and arrest warrants for
the defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO
MARTINELLI LINARES charging them with violations of Title 18, United States Code, Section
1956(h). This amended complaint adds charges for violations of Title 18, United States Code,
Sections 1956(a)(1)(B)(i), 1957 and 2.
(a) to transport, transmit, and transfer, and attempt to transport,
transmit and transfer monetary instruments and funds from a place in the United States to and
through a place outside the United States and to a place in the United States from and through a
place outside the United States with the intent to promote the carrying on of a specified unlawful
activity, to wit: an offense against a foreign nation involving bribery of a public official, in
violation of the Penal Code of the Republic of Panama; contrary to Title 18, United States Code,
Section 1956(a)(2)(A);

(b) to conduct and attempt to conduct financial transactions involving
the proceeds of specified unlawful activity, to wit: an offense against a foreign nation involving
bribery of a public official, in violation of the Penal Code of the Republic of Panama; knowing
that the property involved represented proceeds of some form of unlawful activity, and knowing
that the transaction was designed in whole and in part to conceal and disguise the nature,
location, source, ownership and control of the proceeds of the specified unlawful activity;
contrary to Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(a)(1)(B)(); and

(c) to engage and attempt to engage in a monetary transaction in
criminally derived property of a value greater than $10,000 and is derived from specified
unlawful activity, to wit: an offense against a foreign nation involving bribery of a public
official, in violation of the Penal Code of the Republic of Panama; contrary to Title 18, United
States Code, Section 1957.

(Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h))
Upon information and belief, on or about the dates set forth below, within the

Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI
Case 1:20-mj-00498-RML Document 5 Filed 07/20/20 Page 3 of 12 PagelD #: 19

LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES, together with others, did
knowingly and intentionally conduct and attempt to conduct a financial transaction representing
the proceeds of specified unlawful activity, to wit: an offense against a foreign nation involving
bribery of a public official, in violation of the Penal Code of the Republic of Panama; knowing
that the property involved represented proceeds of some form of unlawful activity, and knowing
that the transaction was designed in whole and part to conceal and disguise the nature, location,

source, ownership and control of the proceeds of the specified unlawful activity, as follows:

 

Date Wire
November 12, 2013 | Wire transfer of $899,978.32 from Bank 1,
through accounts at Bank 8 in New York, New
York, to Bank 5
December 10, 2013 | Wire transfer of $30,887.21 from Bank 1,
through accounts at Bank 8 in New York, New
York, to Bank 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956(a)(1)(B)(1) and 2)

Upon information and belief, on or about the dates set forth below, within the
Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the defendant LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI
LINARES, together with others, did knowingly and intentionally engage and attempt to engage
in a monetary transaction by, through and to a financial institution, affecting interstate and
foreign commerce, in criminally derived property of a value greater than $10,000, such property
having been derived from a specified unlawful activity, to wit: an offense against a foreign
nation involving bribery of a public official, in violation of the Penal Code of the Republic of

Panama, as follows:
Case 1:20-mj-00498-RML Document5 Filed 07/20/20 Page 4 of 12 PagelD #: 20

 

Date Wire
February 11,2013 | Wire transfer of $346,500.00 from Bank 2,
through an account in New York, New York, at
Bank 6, to an account in New Jersey at Bank 9
August 26, 2015 Wire transfer of $570,000.00 from Bank 2,
through an account in New York, New York, at
Bank 6, to an account in Florida at Bank 6

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1957 and 2)

The source of your deponent’s information and the grounds for his belief are as
follows:

1. I have been a Special Agent with the FBI since 2010. I am currently
assigned to the International Corruption Unit at the FBI’s New York Division, and I have
received training in foreign bribery, kleptocracy, money laundering, fraud and other white-collar
crimes. During my career as an FBI Special Agent, I have received both formal and informal
training from the FBI and other institutions regarding computer-related investigations and
computer technology.

2. I am familiar with the information contained in this affidavit based on: (a)
my personal knowledge; (b) witness interviews, including statements from cooperating witnesses
who have been corroborated and found to be reliable; (c) my review of documents and other
evidence; (d) my communications with other law enforcement personnel; and (e) my training and
experience.

3. Except as explicitly set forth below, I have not distinguished in this
affidavit between facts of which I have personal knowledge and facts of which I learned from
other law enforcement agents. Because this affidavit is being submitted for the limited purpose

of establishing probable cause to arrest the defendants, I have not set forth each and every fact
Case 1:20-mj-00498-RML Document5 Filed 07/20/20 Page 5 of 12 PagelD #: 21

learned during the course of this investigation. Instead, I have set forth only those facts that I
believe are necessary to establish probable cause for the arrest warrants sought herein. In
addition, where the contents of documents, or the actions, statements and conversations of others
are reported herein, they are reported in sum and substance and in part, except where otherwise
indicated.

I. The Defendants and Relevant Entities and Individuals

4. The defendant LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES (also referred

 

to herein as “LUIS MARTINELLI”) was a citizen of Panama and Italy. He was the brother of
the defendant RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES. During the course of the
conspiracy, LUIS MARTINELLI travelled several times to the United States.

5. The defendant RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES (also
referred to herein as “RICARDO MARTINELLI LINARES’”) was a citizen of Panama and Italy.
He was the brother of the defendant LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES. During the
course of the conspiracy, RICARDO MARTINELLI LINARES travelled several times to the
United States.

6. The Panama Government Official’ was a high-ranking government official
in Panama from in or about 2009 until in or about 2014. The Panama Government Official was a
“public servant” as that term is defined in the Penal Code of the Republic of Panama (“Panama
Penal Code”). The defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO

ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES were close relatives of the Panama Government Official.

 

* Certain entities’ and individuals’ names have been anonymized for the purposes of this criminal
complaint. The identity of each of these entities and individuals is known to me.
5
7.

Odebrecht S.A. was a Brazilian holding company that, through its

subsidiaries and companies in which it was a majority shareholder (collectively “Odebrecht” or

the “Company”), conducted business in multiple industries, including engineering, construction,

infrastructure, energy, chemicals, utilities and real estate. Odebrecht had its headquarters in

Salvador, state of Bahia, Brazil, and operated in at least 27 other countries, including the United

States.

10.

11.

12.

“Offshore Company A” was a British Virgin Islands corporation.
“Offshore Company B” was a British Virgin Islands corporation.
“Offshore Company C” was a British Virgin Islands corporation.
“Offshore Company D” was a Bahamian corporation.

“Offshore Company E,” “Offshore Company F,” “Offshore Company G,”

“Offshore Company H,” and “Offshore Company I” were all corporate entities.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

New York.

19.

New York.

“Bank 1” was a financial institution located in Switzerland.
“Bank 2” was a financial institution located in Switzerland.
“Bank 3” was a financial institution located in Switzerland.
“Bank 4” was a financial institution located in Switzerland.
“Bank 5” was a financial institution located in Switzerland.

“Bank 6” was a U.S. bank that held correspondent accounts in New York,

“Bank 7” was a U.S. bank that held correspondent accounts in New York,
Case 1:20-mj-00498-RML Document5 Filed 07/20/20 Page 7 of 12 PagelD #: 23

20. “Bank 8” was a U.S. bank that held correspondent accounts in New York,
New York.
21. “Bank 9” was a U.S. bank.

II. Panama Penal Code

 

22. The Panama Penal Code made it a criminal offense to bribe a public
servant and provided, in relevant part: “Whoever, by any means, offers, promises or delivers to a
public servant a donation, promise, money or any other benefit or advantage to perform, delay or
omit any act proper to his position or employment or in violation of his obligations, will be
punished with imprisonment of three to six years.”

Ill. The Criminal Scheme

 

A. Overview of the Odebrecht Bribery Scheme

 

23. On December 21, 2016, Odebrecht S.A. pleaded guilty in the Eastern
District of New York to a one-count criminal information charging it with conspiracy to violate
the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371
and 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3. See ECF Docket No. 16-CR- 643. As part of its plea agreement,
Odebrecht S.A. admitted that, in or about and between 2001 and 2016, Odebrecht, through
certain of its employees and agents, and together with other co-conspirators, engaged in a
massive bribery scheme in which the co-conspirators agreed with others to corruptly pay over
$700 million in bribes to, and for the benefit of, public servants, foreign officials, foreign
political parties, foreign political party officials and foreign political candidates to obtain and
retain business and to gain an advantage and benefit from the public servants and foreign

officials in various countries around the world, including public officials and public servants in
Case 1:20-mj-00498-RML Document5 Filed 07/20/20 Page 8 of 12 PagelD #: 24

Panama. Odebrecht’s bribery scheme included corrupt payments and the provision of other
things of value.

24. Odebrecht concealed the nature, source, ownership and control of the
proceeds of the bribery scheme by funneling the proceeds of the scheme through offshore shell
company bank accounts to the ultimate beneficiaries of the bribes, namely, public servants,
foreign officials, foreign political parties, foreign political candidates and their representatives.

25. Odebrecht, together with certain of its employees and agents, caused wire
transfers to be made from Odebrecht-related bank accounts to offshore shell company bank
accounts controlled by Odebrecht, including through New York-based accounts, such as those at
Banks 6, 7 and 8. Funds intended for the illegal bribe payments were then transferred through
multiple offshore shell company bank accounts throughout the world, including through New
York-based accounts, before reaching the final bribe recipients.

26. Odebrecht used an agent in the United States to purchase offshore shell
companies for Odebrecht, to send and receive documents to facilitate the establishment of
offshore bank accounts in the name of offshore shell companies for Odebrecht and to send and
receive documents, certain of which contained false and fraudulent information, to cause
financial transactions to be conducted from offshore shell company bank accounts, including
financial transactions that utilized U.S. correspondent bank accounts.

B. Overview of the Defendants’ Role in the Odebrecht Bribery Scheme

 

27. In or about and between August 2009 and July 2014, the defendants LUIS
ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES,

together with others, participated in the Odebrecht bribery scheme by, among other things,
serving as intermediaries for corrupt payments and the provision of other things of value that
Odebrecht offered and provided to the Panama Government Official. Among other things, LUIS
MARTINELLI and RICARDO MARTINELLI LINARES established offshore bank accounts in
the names of offshore shell companies to receive and disguise bribe payments from Odebrecht
made for the benefit of the Panama Government Official.

28. From approximately August 2009 to September 2015, the defendants
LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI
LINARES, together with others, took a number of steps to open and manage secret bank
accounts held in the names of shell companies in foreign jurisdictions, which were used to
receive, further transfer and deliver bribe payments that Odebrecht made and caused to be made
for the benefit of the Panama Government Official. Specifically, LUIS MARTINELLI and
RICARDO MARTINELLI LINARES established shell companies in foreign jurisdictions;
served as the signatories on certain of the shell company bank accounts; and personally sent and
caused to be sent wire transfers through the structure of shell company bank accounts to conceal
and spend bribery proceeds.

29. In or about and between 2009 and 2012, the defendants LUIS ENRIQUE
MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES opened bank
accounts in Switzerland for the purpose of receiving, further transferring and delivering bribe
payments from Odebrecht for the benefit of the Panama Government Official in the name of
Offshore Company A at Bank 1, Offshore Company B and Offshore Company I at Bank 2,

Offshore Company C at Bank 3, Offshore Company D at Bank 4, and Offshore Company E,
Offshore Company F, Offshore Company G and Offshore Company H, all at Bank 5 (together
the “Offshore Company Accounts”).

30. The purpose of opening and operating the Offshore Company Accounts
was to promote, assist, facilitate, conceal and serve as intermediaries for Odebrecht’s payment of
bribes for the benefit of the Panama Government Official so that Odebrecht could obtain an
improper business advantage and gain and retain business in Panama by causing the Panama
Government Official to perform acts proper to his/her position in his/her official capacity and in
violation of his/her obligations.

31. — In total, in or about and between 2009 and 2012, the Offshore Company
Accounts received approximately $28 million in bribe proceeds from Odebrecht for the benefit
of the Panama Government Official. At least approximately $19 million of those bribe proceeds
were transferred through U.S. correspondent bank accounts, including Bank 6 and Bank 7 in
New York, New York, into the Offshore Company Accounts.

32. For example, financial records show that on or about July 27, 2010, a wire
transfer of approximately $350,000.00 U.S. dollars were transferred from an offshore shell
company bank account controlled by Odebrecht and located in Portugal to the Offshore
Company A account at Bank 1, through an account at Bank 6 in New York, New York.

33. The defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and
RICARDO ALBERTO MARTINELLI LINARES later conducted numerous additional financial
transactions through U.S. banks, some of which were located in New York, New York, involving

the proceeds of bribe payments from Odebrecht.

10
34. Financial records show that on or about February 11, 2013, the defendant
LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES caused the transfer of approximately $346,500.00
U.S. dollars from the Offshore Company I account at Bank 2, through an account at Bank 6 in
New York, New York, to an account in New Jersey at Bank 9. Records obtained from a yacht
broker in New York show that this transfer was a partial payment for the purchase of a yacht.

35. Financial records show that on or about November 12, 2013, the
defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO
MARTINELLI LINARES caused the transfer of approximately $899,978.32 U.S. dollars from
the Offshore Company A account at Bank 1 to the Offshore Company E account at Bank 5,
through accounts at Bank 8 in New York, New York.

36. Financial records show that on or about December 10, 2013, the
defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO
MARTINELLI LINARES caused the transfer of approximately $30,887.21 U.S. dollars from the
Offshore Company A account at Bank | to the Offshore Company E account at Bank 5, through
accounts at Bank 8 in New York, New York.

37. Financial records show that on or about August 26, 2015, the defendant
LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES caused the transfer of approximately $570,000.00
U.S. dollars from the Offshore Company I account at Bank 2 through an account at Bank 6 in
New York, New York, to an account at Bank 6 in Florida. Title transaction records show that
this transfer was a partial payment for the purchase of a condominium in Miami by a Florida

corporation on behalf of LUIS MARTINELLI.

oe 2K OK

1]
~ Case 1:20-mj-00498-RML Document5 Filed 07/20/20 Page 12 of 12 PagelD #: 28

WHEREFORE, your deponent respectfully requests that arrest warrants be issued
for the defendants LUIS ENRIQUE MARTINELLI LINARES and RICARDO ALBERTO
MARTINELLI LINARES, so that they may be dealt with according to law. Your deponent
further requests that the arrest warrants issued by the Honorable Robert M. Levy upon the

original complaint in this matter, on June 27, 2020, remain in effect for purposes of extradition.

 

 

Michael Lewandowski
pecial Agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation

telephonically

20 Sworn to béforé me this
__ day of JuW, 2020 ft

THE HONORABLE VERA M. SCANLON
UNITED STATES MAGISTRATE JUDGE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORE

 

12
