Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Litigation Release No. 18740 / June 9, 2004

Securities and Exchange Commission v. Schering-Plough Corporation,
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Civil Action
No. 1:04CV00945 (PLF)

SEC FILES SETTLED ENFORCEMENT ACTION AGAINST
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION FOR FOREIGN
CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT VIOLATIONS

The Securities and Exchange Commission announced today that it has filed a
complaint in federal court seeking a civil penalty against Schering-Plough
Corporation, for violating the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Commission's complaint
alleges that, between February 1999 and March 2002, one of Schering-
Plough's foreign subsidiaries, Schering-Plough Poland, made improper
payments to a charitable organization called the Chudow Castle Foundation.
The Foundation was headed by an individual who was the Director of the
Silesian Health Fund during the relevant time. The health fund was a Polish
governmental body that, among other things, provided money for the
purchase of pharmaceutical products and influenced the purchase of those
products by other entities, such as hospitals, through the allocation of health
fund resources. According to the complaint, Schering-Plough Poland paid
315,800 zlotys (approximately $76,000) to the Chudow Castle Foundation to
induce the Director to influence the health fund's purchase of Schering-
Plough's pharmaceutical products.

The complaint alleges that none of the payments made by Schering-Plough
Poland to the Foundation was accurately reflected on the subsidiary's books
and records. The complaint also alleges that the company's system of internal
accounting controls was inadequate to prevent or detect the improper
payments. Without admitting or denying the allegations in the complaint,
Schering-Plough consented to pay a $500,000 civil penalty.

In a related enforcement action announced today, Schering-Plough
consented, without admitting or denying the Commission's findings, to the
issuance of a Commission Order requiring Schering-Plough to cease and
desist from committing or causing violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)
(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. Schering-Plough also was ordered to comply with
its undertakings to retain an independent consultant to review the company's
policies and procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and to implement any changes recommended by the consultant.
(Rel. No. 34-49838; File No. 3-11517).

The Commission's investigation is continuing as to others.

» SEC Complaint in this matter

http:/www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/Ir18740.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 06/09/2004
