Case 1:20-cv-24550-CMM Document 12-1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/27/2021 Page 1 of 33

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THESOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

BUREAU OF CONSUMER

FINANCIAL PROTECTION,
Case No. 20-24550-CIV-Graham
Plaintiff,

V.

DRIVER LOAN, LLC, and
ANGELO JOSE SARJEANT,

Defendants.

 

 

PROPOSED STIPULATED FINAL JUDGEMENT AND ORDER

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) commenced
this civil action against Driver Loan, LLC and Angelo Jose Sarjeanton
November 5, 2020, to obtain injunctive and other relief. The Complaint
alleges deceptive acts and practices in violation of § 1036(a)(1)(B) of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §
5536(a)(1)(B), in connection with Defendants’ Deposit-Taking Activities.

The Bureau and Defendants agree to entry of this Stipulated Final

Judgment and Order (Order), without adjudication of any issue of fact or
law, to settle and resolve all matters in dispute arising from the conduct
alleged in the Complaint.
INTRODUCTION

1. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject
matter of this action.

2. The Bureau and Defendants agree to entry of this Order,
without adjudication of any issue of fact or law, to settle and resolve all
matters in this dispute arising from the conductalleged in the Complaint.

3. Defendants neither admit nor deny any allegations in the
Complaint, except as specifically stated in this Order.

4. Defendants waive all rights to seek judicial review or otherwise
challenge or contestthe validity of this Order. Defendants also waive any
claim that they may have under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 28 U.S.C.
§ 2412, concerning the prosecution of this action to the date of this Order.
Each party will bear its own costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, attorneys’ fees.

5. Entry of this Order is in the public interest.

DEFINITIONS

6. The following definitions apply to this Order:
2
cps
a)
ra?

Pd
rat
rat

Sips
-
ve

i
wt
oe

whe
hen
Gabe
7)
re
wepes
ti
pores
fe
g
ra
“|
ad
ot
2
*
oo
ve
oe
cp

a. “Affected Consumer” means consumers who deposited
money with Driver Loan, LLC between June 2020 and the Effective
Date, excluding Angelo Jose Sarjeant.

b. “Assisting Others” includes, but is not limited to:

i. consultingin any form whatsoever;

ii. performing customer-service functions, including but
not limited to receiving or responding to consumer
complaints;

iii. formulating or providing, or arranging for the
formulation or provision of, any advertising or
marketing material, including but not limited to web
or Internet Protocol addresses or domain-name
registration for any internet websites, affiliate-
marketing services, or media-placement services;

iv. providing names of, or assisting in the generation of,
potential customers;

v. performing marketing, billing, or payment services of

any kind; and
pry

vi. acting orserving as an owner, Officer, director,
manager, or principal of any entity.

c. “Consumer Financial Product or Service” is synonymous
in meaning and equal in scope to the definition of the term in the
CFPA, 12U.5.C. § 5481(5), and, subject to applicable restrictions
contained in the CFPA, includes but is not limited to:

i. providing financial-advisory services to consumers on
individual consumer-financial matters or relating to
proprietary financial products or services; and

ii. engaging in deposit-taking activities, transmitting, or
exchanging funds, or otherwise acting as a custodian
of funds or any financial instrument for use by or on
behalf of a consumer.

d. “Defendants” means Driver Loan, LLC and AngeloJose
Sarjeant.

e. “Deposit-Taking Activity” is synonymous in meaning
and equal in scope to the definition of the term in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C.
§ 5481(8), and, subject to applicable restrictions contained in the

CFPA, including § 1027(i) & (j) of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5517(i) & (j),
4
and includes but is not limited to:

i. theacceptance of deposits, maintenance of deposit
accounts, or the provision of services related to the
acceptance of deposits or the maintenance of deposit
accounts; and

ii. the acceptance of funds, the provision of other services
related to the acceptance of funds, or the maintenance

of member share accounts by acredit union.

f. “Effective Date” means the date on which this Order is
entered on the docket.
g. “Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of

the Office of Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection, or his or her delegate.

h. “Driver Loan, LLC” means Driver Loan, LLC and its
successors and assigns.

1. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or
on behalf of one or more consumers or an enforcement action by
another governmental agency brought against Defendants based on

substantially the same facts described in this Order or the Complaint.
5
vapey
e

j. “Service Provider” is synonymous in meaning and equal
in scope to the definition of the term in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C.
§ 5481(26), and, subject to applicable restrictions contained in the
CFPA, includes but is not limited to any person that provides a
material service to a covered person, in connection with the offering
or provision by such covered person of a consumer-financial product
or service, including a person that: (i) participates in designing,
operating, or maintaining the consumer-financial product or service;
or (ii) processes transactions relating to the consumer-financial
product or service (other than unknowingly or incidentally
transmitting or processing financial data ina manner that such data
is undifferentiated from other types of data of the same form as the
person transmits or processes). “Service provider” does not includea
person solely by virtue of such person offering or providing to a
covered person: (i) a support service of a type provided to businesses
generally or a similar ministerial service; or (ii) time or space for an
advertisement for a consumer-financial product or service through

print, newspaper, or electronic media.
vapey
e

CONDUCT PROVISIONS
I.
Permanent Ban on Deposit-Taking Activity
IT IS ORDERED that:

7. Defendants, whether acting directly or indirectly, are
permanently banned from participating in or Assisting Others in
advertising, marketing, promoting, offering for sale, selling, or providing
any Deposit-Taking Activity.

8. Defendants, whether acting directly or indirectly, are
permanently banned from receiving any remuneration or other
consideration from, holding any ownership interest in, providing services
to, or working in any capacity for any person engaged in or assisting in
advertising, marketing, promoting, offering for sale, selling, or providing

any Deposit-Taking Activity.
II.
Prohibition on Deceptive Practices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

9, Defendants and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and
attorneys, and all other persons in active concert or participation with them
who have actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or indirectly,
may not:

a. violate §§ 1031 and 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C.

§§ 5531, 5536(a)(1)(B); and

b. | inconnection with the advertising, marketing, promotion,
offering for sale, sale, or performance of any Consumer Financial

Product or Service, may not misrepresent, or Assist Others in

misrepresenting, expressly or impliedly, any fact material to

consumers, including but not limited to total costs and any material

restrictions, limitations, or conditions.
Case 1:20-cv-24550-CMM Document 12-1 Entered on FLSD Docket 05/27/2021 Page 9 of 33

III.
Customer Information
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

10. Defendants and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and
attorneys and all other Persons in active concert or participation with any
of them who receive actual notice of this Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not:

a. disclose, use, or benefit from customer information,
including names, addresses, telephone numbers, email addresses,
Social Security numbers, other identifying information, or any data
that enables access to a customer's account (including a credit-card
account, bank account, or other financial account), that Defendants
obtained before the Effective Date;

b. attempt to collect, sell, assign, or otherwise transfer any
right to collect payment from any consumer to whom Defendants
extended credit.

However, customer information may be disclosed if requested by a

government agency or required by law, regulation, or court order.
A PNP UFR APT TO SRA AR PR ee oe come om nen Eh BPP ce ew we nd em ee, OTT TEN OS UE ie
a TO Oe PASS OLUCMAA  Proicrirent 22.1 EPrtrerecioan FLSD Packet OS)
x Rae Oe PR Le SEE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i PASSE RSL ASP P Po bale LP AR

MONETARY PROVISIONS
IV.
Order to Pay Redress
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

11. Ajudgmentfor monetary relief and damages is entered in favor
of the Bureau and against Defendants, jointly and severally, for the full
amount Defendants received from consumers who purchased their
advertised Consumer Financial Products and Services, plus allinterest due
to consumers under the terms of the advertised Consumer Financial
Product or Service purchased, for the purpose of providing redress to
Affected Consumers.

12. Defendants have represented to the Bureau that they accepted
from consumers more than $1 million for Defendants’ Consumer Financial
Products and Services.

13. Payment of redress to any Affected Consumer under this Order
may not be conditioned on that Affected Consumer waiving any right.

A. Redress Plan

14. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Defendants must submit

to the Enforcement Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive

10
written plan for providing redress consistent with this Order (Redress
Plan). The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a
determination of non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct Defendants to
revise it. If the Enforcement Director directs Defendants to revise the
Redress Plan, Defendants must make the revisions and resubmitthe
Redress Plan to the Enforcement Director within 30 days. After receiving
notification thatthe Enforcement Director has made a determination of
non-objection to the Redress Plan, Defendants must implement and adhere
to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes set forth in the
Redress Plan.

15. The Redress Plan must state:

a. the totalamount of all money Driver Loan, LLC received
to date from all Affected Consumers for the Consumer Financial
Products and Services Defendants offered, including any associated
fees;

b. the totalamount of deposits Driver Loan, LLC received
from all Affected Consumers;

C. the total amount of interest Driver Loan, LLC

contractually owed to all Affected Consumers for those deposits;

11
d. the total amount of any fees Driver Loan, LLC received
from all Affected Consumers;

e. the deposit amount Driver Loan, LLC received from each
individual Affected Consumer;

f. the total interest Driver Loan, LLC contractually owed to
each individual Affected Consumer for his or her deposit; and

g. the total amount of any fees Driver Loan, LLC received
from each individual Affected Consumer.

16. For any redress made before the Effective Date of this Order,
the Redress Plan must state:

a. the total amount of all money Driver Loan, LLC refunded
to all Affected Consumers for the Consumer Financial Products and
Services Defendants offered, including any associated fees and
interest owed;

b. the totalamount of deposits Driver Loan, LLC refunded
to all Affected Consumers;

C. the totalamount of interest Driver Loan, LLC refunded to
all Affected Consumers;

d. the total amount of any fees Driver Loan, LLC refunded

12
A PNP UFR APT TO SRA AR PR ee oe come om nen Eh BPP ce ew we nd em ee, OTT TEN OS UE ie
a TO Oe PASS OLUCMAA  Proicrirent 22.1 EPrtrerecioan FLSD Packet OS)
daat Rae Oe PR Le SEE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i PASSE RSL ASP P Po bale LP AR

to Affected Consumers;

e. the deposit amount Driver Loan, LLC refunded to each
individual Affected Consumer and the date the refund was sent;

f. the interestamount Driver Loan, LLC refunded to each
individual Affected Consumer for his or her deposit and the date the
refund was sent; and

ge. the totalamount of any fees Driver Loan, LLC refunded
to each individual Affected Consumer and the date the refund was
sent.

17. For any redress not made before the Effective Date of this
Order, the Redress Plan mustalso state:

a. the totalamount of allmoney Driver Loan, LLC will
refund to Affected Consumers, under Paragraph 11 of this Order, for
the Consumer Financial Products and Services Defendants offered,
including any associated fees and interest;

b. the totalamount of deposits Driver Loan, LLC will refund
to all Affected Consumers under Paragraph 11 of this Order;

C. the total amount of interest Driver Loan, LLC will refund

to all Affected Consumers under Paragraph 11 of this Order;
13
- my ger PMA AR ~ ae a oe ' err PAPA PN da
OO. PASSGUCAMSA Pyocpement 12-1 Entererci on FESS Poeket OFFS
PRS WT AR RU WEE RGU ADR eo PERT EAS Ud ASP LAO LGA

d. the total amount of any fees Driver Loan, LLC will refund
to all Affected Consumers under Paragraph 11 of this Order;

e. the deposit amount Driver Loan, LLC willrefund to each
individual Affected Consumer under Paragraph 11 of this Order;

f. the interestamount Driver Loan, LLC will refund to each
individual Affected Consumer under Paragraph 11 of this Order; and

g. the total amount of any fees Driver Loan, LLC will refund
to each individual Affected Consumer under Paragraph 11 of this
Order.

18. For any redress made before the Effective Date of this Order,

the Redress Plan must state the manner in which the redress was made and

include with their Redress Plan: (1) the template of the communication

(Prior Redress Notification Letter) that was sentnotifying Affected

Consumers of the redress; (2) if the communication was mailed, the form of

the envelope that contained the Prior Redress Notification Letter; (3) the

forms of any other documents already sent to Affected Consumers relating

to redress; and (4) appropriate proof of such redress, including

documentation of payments made (such as but not limited to bank records,

wire transfer receipts, and copies of checks).

14
ONE. Pl aerr mm PRR A m cm oe ee AO OS PY ee ed me OEE SPA OFA am te
¢ POP DAR RIA PS RARAR PNeiemireyseaimd 94 Ciintaraci an EPS Praarcteot OE!
5 Ra es A ae PRPS EN Feed aye Ve BS oaF ve TE ae ebay ae Bo ae 8 weer se dah got Faye wesw Shoe Of FE RE ee BAG :

dea te RL WO a PR Le EE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i eh RSL ASP E GP kane RPS PA

19. With respect to any redress not made before the Effective Date
of this Order, the Redress Plan must include: (1) the template of the
communication (Redress Notification Letter) that will be sent notifying
Affected Consumers of the redress; and (2) if the communication will be
mailed, the form of the envelope that will contain the Redress Notification
Letter. The Redress Notification Letter must include language explaining
the manner in which the amount of redress was calculated, including
interest and a statement that the refund paymentis being made in
accordance with the terms of this Order. Defendants must not include in
any envelope or with any email containing a Redress Notification Letter
any materials other than the approved letters and redress checks, unless
Defendants have obtained written confirmation from the Enforcement
Director that the Bureau does not object to the inclusion of such additional
materials.

20. Inthe event that the Enforcement Director finds the Prior
Redress Letters unsatisfactory, Defendants will provide a template of the
follow-up communication (Follow-Up Redress Notification Letter) that will
be sent to Affected Consumers. The Follow-Up Redress Notification Letter

must include language explaining the manner in which the amount of

15
rP
beer?
cent
Pett
£
tah

redress was calculated, including interest and a statement that the refund
payment is being made in accordance with the terms of this Order.
21. The Redress Plan must include a description of the following:
a. methodsused and the time necessary to compile a list of
potential Affected Consumers;
b. methods used to calculate the amount of redress to be
paid to each Affected Consumer as required herein;
c. procedures for issuance and tracking of redress to
Affected Consumers;
d. procedures for monitoring compliance with the Redress
Plan; and
e. the process for providing redress to Affected Consumers.
22. Defendants must make reasonable attempts to obtain a current
physical address and email address for any Affected Consumer fora
period of 360 days from the date the redress was sent, during which period
such amountmay be claimed by such Affected Consumer upon
appropriate proof of identity. After such time those monies will be

deposited into the U.S. Treasury as disgorgement.

16
23. Aftercompleting the Redress Plan, if the amount of redress
provided to Affected Consumers is less than the sum total of the amounts
calculated under Paragraphs 15.a and 15.c of this Order, within 30 days of
the completion of the Redress Plan, Defendants must pay to the Bureau, by
wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent, and according to the
Bureau's wiring instructions, the difference.

24. The Bureau may use these remaining funds to pay additional
redress to Affected Consumers. If the Bureau determines, in its sole
discretion, that additional redress is wholly or partially impracticable or
otherwise inappropriate, or if funds remain after the additional redress is
completed, the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S.
Treasury as disgorgement. Defendants will have no right to challenge any
actions that the Bureau or its representatives may take under this Section.

25. Defendants must notcondition the paymentof any redress to
any Affected Consumer under this Order on that person’s agreement to
any condition, such as the waiver of any right. If any redress already made
was conditioned on any waivers, those waivers are void and

unenforceable.

17
Ss oN Pl aerr mm PRR A wy . ao oe 5 eee ee oe ieee am ;

ce TOO ee DARE A_ PSS RARA Maciissanrmt 13.4 Ciintaraci an EP Om Praceot OEP
5 ” es A ae PRPS EN Feed aye Ve BS oaF ve TE ae ebay ae Bo ae 8 weer se dah got Faye wesw yh OF f BSR BAP FS
daat Rae Oe PR Le SEE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i eh RL ASP Po bale RPA PAR

B. Assessment of Redress

26. Defendants must retain, at their own expense, theservices of an
independentcertified accounting firm (Firm), within 15 days after the
Enforcement Director’s non-objections under Paragraph 14, to determine
compliance with the Redress Plan. The Firm shall determine compliance in
accordance with the attestation standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants for agreed-upon procedures for
engagements.

27. Before engagement, and no later than 60 days from the
Effective Date, Defendants must submit the name and qualifications of the
Firm, together with the proposed engagement letter with the Firm and the
proposed agreed-upon procedures, to the Enforcement Director for non-
objection.

28. The Firm must prepare a detailed written report of its
assessment of the Defendant’s compliance with the terms of the Redress
Plan (Redress Report). The Redress Report must include an assessment of
the Redress Plan and the methodology used to determine the population of
Affected Consumers, the amountof redress for each Affected Consumer

and the overall amount of redress provided to all Affected Consumers, the

18
A PNP UFR APT TO SRA AR PR ee ae come om nen Eh BPP ce ew we nd em ee, OTT TEN OS UE ie
a TO Oe PASS OLUCMAA  Proicrirent 22.1 EPrtrerecioan FLSD Packet OS)
daat Rae Oe PR Le SEE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i PRA ESS LAS bo Rw LA PAR

procedures used to issue and track redress payments, and the work of any
independentconsultants that Defendants have used to assist and review
their execution of the Redress Plan.

29. ‘The Firm must submit the Redress Report to the Enforcement
Director and the Board within 90 days after Defendants complete
implementation of the Redress Plan.

V.
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

30. Under §1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of
the violations of law alleged in the Complaint, and taking into account the
factors in 12 U.S.C. §5565(c)(3), ajudgment for a civil money penalty is
entered in favor of the Bureau and against Defendants Driver Loan, LLC
and Angelo Jose Sarjeant, jointly and severally, in the amount of $100,000.

31. Defendants must pay the civil money penalty by wire transfer
to the Bureau or the Bureau’s agentin compliance with the Bureau's wiring
instructions and according to the following schedule:

a. Defendants must pay $50,000 within 30 days of the
Effective Date; and

b. Defendants must pay the remaining $50,000 within 60
19
A PNP UFR APT TO SRA AR PR ee ae come om nen Eh BPP ce ew we nd em ee, OTT TEN OS UE ie
a TO Oe PASS OLUCMAA  Proicrirent 22.1 EPrtrerecioan FLSD Packet OS)
daat Rae Oe PR Le SEE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i ERR ERLE ASP PEALE RRS PAR

days of the Effective Date.

32. Thecivil money penalty paid under this Order will be
deposited in the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d)
of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §5497(d).

33. Defendants must treatthe civil money penalty paid under this
Order as a penalty paid to the government for all purposes. Defendants
may not:

a. claim, assert, or apply fora tax deduction, tax credit, or
any other tax benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this
Order; or

b. — seekoraccept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil
money penalty paid under this Order.

34. Defendant Sarjeant agrees that the civil penalty imposed by the
Order represents a civil penalty owed to the United States Government, is

not compensation for actual pecuniary loss, and, thus, is not subject to

discharge under the Bankruptcy Code under 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(7).

20
— PY RET PMA RR ~ AN A Oe. ROP Pe ho A PA IA -~ AA fe
Mace Tem. PASSAIC AMARA  Moepmment 73.7 Fnterecrtan FE SD Macket OS/S7 (Oe Dare ST ar ak
CRON oh d Nae We BR ED LAUGHTER Aeon PPA AS AGP OP LL ROLLER ASO a PP AS Po Cali ¢ PR adao

VI.
Additional Monetary Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

35. Inthe event of any default on Defendants’ obligations to make
payments under this Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date
of default to the date of payment and will immediately become due and
payable.

36. Defendants relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the
funds paid under this Order to the fullestextent permitted by law, and no
part of the funds may be returned to Defendants.

37. Inany proceeding based on the entry of the Order, or in any
subsequent civil litigation by or on behalf of the Bureau, including ina
proceeding to enforce the Bureau's rights to any payment or monetary
judgment under this Order, suchas a nondischargeability complaint in any
bankruptcy case, the facts alleged in the Complaint will be taken as true
and be given collateral estoppel effect, without further proof.

38. For the purpose of supporting an action by the Bureau under

§ 523(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 523(a)(2)(A), the facts
21
A OAR 0. ARI fea RRA Pa ead TE PY ee ed me OEE SPA OFA am te
¢ POP DAR RIA PS RARAR PNerepierpam? DOL Tatearcne am EP SES Practect OE:
BE Seek ON Fee ERNE Dee ORE AS Lele erent: Took ett eerie Spe £eP a Bek Shoe Of FE RE ee BAG :

dea te RL WO a PR Le EE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i eh RSL ASP E GP kane RPS PA

alleged in the Complaint establish all elements necessary to sustainsuch an
action, and for such purposes this Order will have collateral estoppel effect
against each Defendant, even in such Defendant's capacity as debtor-in-
possession.

39. Under31 U.S.C. §7701, Defendants, unless they have already
done so, must furnish to the Bureau their taxpayer-identification numbers,
which may be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any
delinquent amount arising out of this Order.

40. Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order,
or settlementin a Related Consumer Action, Defendants must notify the
Enforcement Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in
writing. That notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that
Defendants paid or are required to pay to consumers and describe the
consumers or classes of consumers to whom that redress has been or will
be paid. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civilmoney penalty in any
Related Consumer Action, Defendants may not argue that Defendants are
entitled to, nor may Defendants benefit by, any offset or reduction of any
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of

the civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that

22
soe - Per PRA RR oe _ ao oe 5 eee eo ¢ CO PA ES a my “rt ope,

ce TOO ee DARE A_ PSS RARA Maciissanrmt 13.4 Metoararianm EE QO Practeot ME POP Peant Marga BR af Bs
5 ” es A ae PRPS EN Feed aye Ve BS oaF ve TE ae ebay ae Bo ae 8 weer se dah got Faye wesw yh OF f BSR a BAP RP OF ea Ee 8 ge’ oa f EE oN OR OG s
daa Rae Oe PR Le SEE Reo LAS LEE EES UA Raw ERRS ERO ASE PRA RASS PAR A Al f tN he al TP RAMEE cue AE aad

the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Defendants based on the civilmoney
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Defendants must, within 30 days after entry
of a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau and pay
the amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment
will not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not
change the amountof the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

41. Uponwritten request, any consumer-reporting agency must
furnish consumer reports to the Bureau concerning Defendant Sarjeant
§ 604(a)(1) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C.§ 1681 b(a) (1), which
may be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent
amount arising out of this Order.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
VIL.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FUTHER ORDERED that:

42. Defendants mustnotify the Bureau of any development that
23
may affect compliance obligations arising under this Order, including but
not limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that
would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or
practices subject to this Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Defendants; or a change in Defendants’ name or
address. Defendants must provide this notice at least 30 days before the
developmentor as soon as practicable after learning aboutthe
development, whichever is sooner.

43. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Defendant must:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email,
physical, and postal addresses as points of contact that the Bureau
may use to communicate with Defendant;

b. identify all businesses for which Defendant is the majority
owner, or that Defendant directly or indirectly controls, by all of their
names, telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

c. describe the activities of each such business, including the

products and services offered, and the means of advertising,

24
also:

marketing, and sales.

44. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Defendant Sarjeant must

a. identify his telephone numbers and all email, Internet,
physical, and postal addresses, including all residences; and

b. — describe in detail his involvementin any business for
which he performs services in any capacity or which he wholly or
partially owns, including his title, role, responsibilities, participation,
authority, control, and ownership.

45. Defendants must report any change in information required to

be submitted under Paragraphs 42, 43, and 44 at least 30 days before the

change or as soon as practicable after learning about the change, whichever

is sooner.

46. Within 90 days of the Effective Date and again one year after

the Effective Date, each Defendant mustsubmit to the Enforcement

Director an accurate written compliance progress report swom to under

penalty of perjury (Compliance Report), which, ata minimum:

a. lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the

Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which

25
Ss oN Pl aerr mm PRR A we _ ao oe 5 eee eo 7 a ; “yg ot

ce TOO ee DARE A_ PSS RARA PNeiemireyseaimd 94 Ciintaraci an EP Om Praceot OEP Pave
5 ” es A ae PRPS EN Feed aye Ve BS oaF ve TE ae ebay ae Bo ae 8 eee rss Fete Faye wesw yh OF f BSR set yokes i 4 §
dea te A a OP ae Peo Reo LAS LEE EES UA Beat ES PSR APP Po Lae LS PAR

Defendant has complied with each such paragraph and

subparagraph of this Order;

b. describes in detail the manner and form in which

Defendant has complied with the Redress Plan; and

c. attaches acopy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained
under Section VIII (Order Distribution and Acknowledgment), unless
previously submitted to the Bureau.

Vill.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

47. Within 7 days of the Effective Date, each Defendant must
submit to the Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this
Order, sworn under penalty of perjury.

48. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Defendant Driver Loan,
LLC and Defendant Sarjeant, for any business for which he is the majority
owner or which he directly or indirectly controls, must delivera copy of
this Order to each of its executive officers, as well as to any managers,
employees, Service Providers, or other agents and representatives who

have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Order.

26
Ss oN Pl aerr mm PRR A wy . ao oe 5 eee ee oe ieee am ;

ce TOO ee DARE A_ PSS RARA Maciissanrmt 13.4 Ciintaraci an EP Om Praceot OEP
5 ” es A ae PRPS EN Feed aye Ve BS oaF ve TE ae ebay ae Bo ae 8 weer se dah got Faye wesw yh OF f BSR ae RAP RS
daat Rae Oe PR Le SEE Reo LSS LEE EER Ag i eh RL ASP Po bale RPA PAR

49. For5 years from the Effective Date, Defendant Driver Loan,
LLC and Defendant Sarjeant, for any business for which he is the majority
owner or which he directly or indirectly controls, must delivera copy of
this Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section VII (Reporting Requirements), any future board
members and executive officers, as well as to any managers, employees,
Service Providers, or other agents and representatives who will have
responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Order, before they
assume their responsibilities.

50. Defendants must securea signed and dated statement
acknowledging receipt of a copy of this Order, ensuring that any electronic
signatures comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C.

§§ 7001-7006, within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy
of this Order under this Section.

51. Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Defendants must provide
the Bureau with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 48 and 49 and a copy of all
signed and dated statements acknowledging of receipt of this Order under

Paragraph 50.
27
cent

IX.
Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

52. Defendant Driver Loan, LLC and Defendant Sarjeant, for any
business for which he is a majority owner or which he directly or indirectly
controls, must create, for at least 5 years from the Effective Date, all
documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each
provision of this Order, including all submissions to the Bureau.
Defendants must retain these documents for at least 55 years after creation
and make them available to the Bureau upon the Bureau's request.

53. Defendant Driver Loan, LLC must maintain for at least 5 years
from the Effective Date or 5 years after creation, whichever is longer:

a. copies of all sales scripts, training materials,
advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials, including
any such materials used by a third party on Driver Loan, LLC’s
behalf;

b. — for each individual Affected Consumer, and for any other

consumer who enrolls or participates in any Driver Loan, LLC

product or service, the consumer’s name, address, phone number,

28
and email address, amount paid, quantity of product or service
purchased, description of the product or service purchased, the date
on which the product or service was purchased, acopy of any
promotional or welcome materials provided, and, if applicable, the
date and reason the consumer left the program;

C. for any Driver Loan, LLC product or service, accounting
records showing the gross and net revenues generated by the product
or service;

d.  allconsumer complaints and refund requests (whether
received directly or indirectly, suchas througha third party), and
any responses to those complaints or requests;

e. records showing, for each employee providing services,
that person’s name, telephone number, email, physical, and postal
address, job title or position, dates of service, and, if applicable, the
reason for termination; and

f. | records showing, for each Service Provider providing
services related to any Driver Loan, LLC product or service, the name
of a point of contact, and that person’s telephone number, email,

physical, and postal address, job title or position, dates of service,

29
,
ps
m
er
ter
—_—
P
£
wv
we
r
y
-
pe
ioe
“bow
npn
Cad
oo
ce?
snr,
Sed
gf
va

and, if applicable, the reason for termination.

Defendant Driver Loan, LLC mustmake these materials available to
the Bureau upon the Bureau's request.

X.
Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

54. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau,
respectively, Defendants must provide all submissions, requests,
communications, or other documents relating to this Order in writing, with
the subject line, “In re Driver Loan, LLC and Angelo Jose Sarjeant” and
send them contemporaneously to the following addresses:

a. by overnightcourier or first-class mail:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

ATIN: Office of Enforcement
1700 G St., NW
Washington, D.C. 20552

b. — by email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb. gov.

30
rP
beer?
cent
Pett
£
tah

XI.

Cooperation with the Bureau
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

55. Defendants must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine
the identity and location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each
Affected Consumer. Defendants must provide such information in their or
their agents’ possession or control within 14 days of receiving a written
request from the Bureau.

XII.
Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

56. Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau,
Defendants must submit additional compliance reports or other requested
information, which must be sworn under penalty of perjury, provide sworn
testimony, or produce documents.

57. For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate
directly with Defendants, unless Defendants retain counsel related to these
communications.

58. Defendants must permit Bureau representatives to interview

31
any employee or other person affiliated with Defendants who have agreed
to such an interview regarding: (a) this matter; (b) anything related to or
associated with the conduct described the Complaint; or (c) compliance
with this Order. The person interviewed may have counsel present.

59. Nothing in this Order will limit the Bureau's lawful use of
compulsory process under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6.

XIII.
Transfer or Assignment of Operations

60. Should Defendant Driver Loan, LLC seek to transfer or assign
all or part of its operations that are subject to this Order, Defendant must,
as a condition of sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee or

assignee to comply with all applicable provisions of this Order.

32
— ye erie sey eR RAR A Mosse end 2 wey onl -~ ory vent PE
a ot Ras bat do ER 4 PSP PPA Sars & LY SAREE Xncw en oeay gh
ct CLES CASA ee OE VE LARP PERO RPS aoe LGRARE EL AG.

XIV.
Retention of Jurisdiction

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
61.

construction, modification, and enforcement of this Order.

IT IS SOORDERED.

Dated: May __, 2021

 

United States District Judge

33

SF PE ot “Se aeft
q ” a aN aw
eel chk! 3.3
‘

The Court will retain jurisdiction of this matter for purposes of

cent
