Release Number 7753-18
July 12, 2018

CFTC Announces Its Largest Ever Whistleblower Award of Approximately $30 Million

Washington, DC - The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced an award of approximately
$30 million to a whistleblower who voluntarily provided key original information that led to a successful enforcement
action. The award is the largest award made by the CFTC’s Whistleblower Program to date and is the fifth award made
by the program.

“The Whistleblower Program has become an integral component in the agency’s enforcement arsenal,” said CFTC
Chairman, J. Christopher Giancarlo. “We hope that an award of this magnitude will incentivize whistleblowers to come
forward with valuable information and provide notice to market participants that individuals are reporting quality
information about violations of the Commodity Exchange Act [CEA].”

James McDonald, Director of the Division of Enforcement, stated: “Whistleblower submissions have become a significant
part of our enforcement program, allowing us to pursue violations we might otherwise have been unable to detect.
That’s one reason why we've worked hard to expand our Whistleblower Program, including by increasing the protections
afforded to whistleblowers that come forward. | expect the Whistleblower Program to contribute even more substantially
to our enforcement efforts going forward.”

The CFTC’s Whistleblower Program was created by section 748 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act). The CFTC pays monetary awards to eligible whistleblowers who voluntarily
provide the CFTC with original information on violations of the CEA that leads the CFTC to bring a successful enforcement
action resulting in monetary sanctions exceeding $1,000,000. By law, the CFTC protects the confidentiality of
whistleblowers and does not disclose information that might directly or indirectly reveal a whistleblower’s identity. Under
the Dodd-Frank Act, employers may not retaliate against whistleblowers for reporting possible violations of the CEA to
the CFTC.

Whistleblowers are eligible to receive between 10 percent and 30 percent of the monetary sanctions collected. All
whistleblower awards are paid from the CFTC Customer Protection Fund established by Congress and financed entirely
through monetary sanctions paid to the CFTC by violators of the CEA. No money is taken or withheld from harmed
investors to fund the program.

Previously, the highest award amount paid to a CFTC whistleblower was in March 2016 of more than $10 million (see
CFTC Press Release 7351-16, CFTC Announces Whistleblower Award of More Than $10 Million).

“The award today is a demonstration of the program’s commitment to reward those who provide quality information to
the CFTC,” said Christopher Ehrman, Director of the CFTC’s Whistleblower Office. “The number of leads the office
receives continues to grow each year by the hundreds. We hope that this award will continue to facilitate the upward
momentum and success of the CFTC’s Whistleblower Program by attracting those with knowledge of wrongdoing to come
forward.”

* K K K K K XK

To learn more about the CFTC’s Whistleblower Program and to find out how to provide a tip or apply for an award, please
visit the program's website at httops://www.whistleblower.gov/.
