Release Number 7173-15

 

May 11, 2015
CFTC Orders Libero Commodities SA to Pay $480,000 for Call Cotton Reporting Violations

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today issued an Order filing and settling
charges against Libero Commodities SA (Libero), an agricultural trading company, for failing to comply with its legal
obligation as a reportable trader to submit weekly CFTC Form 304 Reports that show its call cotton purchases and sales,
in violation of CFTC Regulation 19.02. Libero’s principal office is in Geneva, Switzerland, and it maintains another office in
Mato Grasso, Brazil.

The Order requires Libero to pay a $480,000 civil monetary penalty and prohibits it from committing future violations of
the CFTC Regulation, as charged. The Order also states that Libero has adopted written procedures regarding future
compliance with the CFTC cotton reporting Regulation and that Libero will undertake to adopt and maintain internal
controls that are reasonably designed to ensure that it complies fully with those written compliance procedures.

Specifically, the Order finds that, on approximately 200 occasions from when Libero commenced trading in May 2010,
through April 29, 2014, Libero held or controlled at least 100 cotton futures positions, but failed to file weekly CFTC Form
304 Reports as required.

As described in the Order, cotton merchants and dealers that hold or control at least 100 cotton futures positions, the
reportable level for cotton futures contracts under CFTC Regulations, are required to file CFTC Form 304 Reports that
show their call cotton purchases and sales as of the close of business Friday, and no later than two business days
following the date of the report.

According to the Order, call cotton refers to physical cotton bought or sold, or contracted for purchase or sale, at a price
to be fixed later based on a specified delivery month’s futures price. The CFTC uses information it gathers from CFTC
Form 304 Reports in its weekly Cotton On-Call Reports, published with other Market Reports on the CFTC website.

The CFTC previously issued a market Advisory reminding cotton market participants of their ongoing obligation to comply
in a timely manner with applicable reporting obligations (see CFIC Staff Advisory No. 13-14 (Obligation of Reportable
Market Participants to File CFTC Form 304 Reports for Call Cotton in a Timely Manner as Required by Commission
Regulation 19.02, May 8, 2013).

The CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Elizabeth Davis, Erica Bodin, and Rick
Glaser. The CFTC acknowledges the assistance of Janet Briner, Kelly Beck, Harold Hild, and Matthew Hunter of the CFTC’s
Division of Market Oversight in connection with this matter.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: May 11, 2015
