#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, May 31, 2017

Gabonese-French Dual Citizen Sentenced to 24 Months Imprisonment for Bribing African Officials

A dual citizen of Gabon and France was sentenced to 24 months in prison for his role in a conspiracy to pay bribes to senior government officials
across Africa, in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).

Acting Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Blanco of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Bridget Rohde of the
Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge William F. Sweeney Jr. of the FBI’s New York Field Office and Acting Special Agent in
Charge Ronald L. Whitsett of Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-Cl)’s New York office made the announcement.

Samuel Mebiame, 43, who resided in Paris prior to his arrest, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of the Eastern District of
New York. Mebiame pleaded guilty on Dec. 9, 2016, to one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA.

According to admissions made at his plea hearing, Mebiame formed a conspiracy to provide improper benefits to government officials in
multiple countries in Africa. Mebiame admitted that the improper benefits he provided were intended to influence the performance of official
governmental duties, and that he took steps to further the conspiracy while physically in New York. Based on court documents, Mebiame
worked as a “fixer” on behalf of a joint venture company owned by New-York-based hedge fund Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (Och-
Ziff) and its business partner, a Turks and Caicos Islands-registered corporate entity controlled by a co-conspirator. In that role, Mebiame
traveled extensively across Africa, Europe and the U.S. and routinely made bribe payments to senior government officials in Africa. Mebaime’s
plea documents indicated that at least five senior officials in three countries, Niger, Chad and Guinea, received corrupt payments and various
illicit benefits from Mebiame. The officials, each of whom could influence the award of mining, oil and mineral concessions in their countries,
received either cash payments, luxury vehicles or extravagant travel including the private rental of an Airbus jet. The bribes paid by Mebiame to
the officials were often masked through additional intermediaries or attorneys.

According to court documents, in Niger, Mebiame paid more than $3 million in bribes to a high-ranking government official both directly and
through intermediary agents who were selected by the Nigerien official. Mebiame also made payments for luxury cars for that foreign official
and directed a $100,000 donation to a charity run by a government official. In return, Mebiame obtained licenses for uranium concessions for
the joint venture from the government of Niger. Similarly, in Chad, Mebiame bribed a high-ranking government official with cash payments and
luxury foreign travel for the official and the official’s wife. In return, Mebiame obtained uranium concessions for the joint venture, including
rights to an asset which had been stripped by the Chadian government, at Mebiame’s urging, from a French-owned company. In Guinea, during
a time when the conspirators were seeking to establish a state-owned mining company there, Mebiame made corrupt payments to gain special
access to senior Guinean government officials. Mebiame provided the officials with cash and other benefits, including an S-Class Mercedes Benz
vehicle and the use of private planes, in exchange for special access and confidential information.

Mebiame’s plea documents indicate that Mebiame repeatedly traveled to the United States between 2007 and 2015, the period of the criminal
acts, and used facilities in both New York and Florida to further the conspiracy. Among other activities undertaken by Mebiame cited in court
papers, he met with co-conspirators in New York, received funds from co-conspirators to U.S. bank accounts he controlled, and had telephone
calls and email correspondence about the scheme.

Following Mebiame’s arrest in Brooklyn last August, as part of the government’s broader investigation, Och-Ziff was charged in September 2016
with violations of the FCPA’s anti-bribery, books and records, and accounting controls provisions for conduct in Libya and the Democratic
Republic of Congo, and conduct in Chad and Niger connected to Mebiame and his co-conspirators’ conduct. Och-Ziff entered into a deferred
prosecution agreement in connection with those charges. An Och-Ziff subsidiary company, OZ Africa Management GP LLC pleaded guilty to a
one-count criminal information related to the payment of extensive bribes in the Democratic Republic of Congo.

The FBI's New York Field Office and IRS-Cl New York investigated the case. Trial Attorney James P. McDonald and Assistant Chief Leo R. Tsao of
the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys James P. Loonam, Jonathan P. Lax and David Pitluck of the Eastern District of
New York are prosecuting the case. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this matter. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s Boston Regional Office provided significant cooperation.

The Criminal Division’s Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice

Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):
Criminal Division
USAO - New York, Eastern

Press Release Number:
17-592

Updated October 3, 2017
