 

   

 

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA SF
Before the Office of Proceedings
U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION Proceedings Clerk
9:46 am, Aug 31, 2020

)
In the Matter of: )
)
Phy Capital Investments, )

LLC and Fabio Bretas de ) CFTC Docket No. SD 20-01
Freitas, )
)
Registrants. _)

 

INITIAL DECISION ON DEFAULT

Before: Kavita Kumar Puri, Judgment Officer
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Washington, D.C.
Appearances: Elizabeth M. Streit, Esq., Chief Trial Attorney
Division of Enforcement
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
525 W. Madison St., Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60661
I. Introduction
This is a proceeding to revoke the registrations of Phy Capital Investments,
LLC (PCI) and Fabio Bretas de Freitas (Bretas) pursuant to Section 8a(2) of the
Commodity Exchange Act (the Act, or CEA), 7 U.S.C. § 8a(2), and Commission rules
3.60(g) and 10.93, 17 C.F.R. §§ 3.60(g) and 10.93. PCI is a registered commodity
pool operator (CPO) and Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA); and Bretas is a
registered associated person (AP) of PCI.

By motion dated August 13, 2020, the Commission’s Division of Enforcement

(Division) has moved for entry of a default judgment (Motion for Default Judgment)
against registrants PCI and Bretas based on their failures to answer, or otherwise
appear or respond to, the Commission’s Notice of Intent to Revoke the Registration
of Phy Capital Investments, LLC and Fabio Bretas de Freitas (Notice). In this
connection, on May 7, 2020 and June 19, 2020, the Office of Proceedings served the
Notice on PCI and Bretas at their last registered address.! Thus PCI and Bretas
were properly served pursuant to CFTC rule 3.50.2

The Commission’s Notice alleges that PCI and Bretas are subject to statutory
disqualification from Commission registration based on: (1) an Order and

Judgment by Default entered on October 2, 2019 by the Honorable Jesse M.

 

1 Hard copies of the Notice of Intent to Revoke Registration were mailed by UPS to PCI and Bretas
on May 7, 2020 to their last known address (included on the NFA Basic website): Fabio Bretas de
Freitas, Phy Capital Investments, LLC, 999 Brickell Avenue, Suite 940, Miami, FL 33131, and Phy
Capital Investments LLC, 999 Brickell Avenue, Suite 940, Miami, FL 33131 that were “delivered” on
May 8, 2020. The Notice was also sent that same day to Fabio Bretas de Freitas, Bergen County
Jail, 160 S. River Street, Hackensack, NJ 07601 because Bretas is currently incarcerated. This
mailing was returned to the Commission because “receiver refused delivery”.

In addition to sending hard copies, the Office of Proceedings sent the Notice on May 7, 2020 by email
to Fabio.Bretas@Phycapital.com and fabiobretasdefreitas@gmail.com. The email to
Fabio.Breta@Phycapital received a Mail Delivery System-Bounce message, and the Commission did
not receive either a confirmation that the email was read or a delivery failure message for the email
to fabiobretasdefreitas@gmail.com.

 

 

 

 

Because the UPS mailings should have instead been certified or registered mail, I had the Notice of
Intent re-served on June 19, 2020 by email and certified mail. The Office of Proceedings received
similar delivery failures for the June 19, 2020 Notice.

2 Pursuant to CFTC Rule 3.30(a), 17 C.F.R. § 3.30(a), the address of each registrant as submitted on
its application for registration or as submitted on the biographical supplement shall be deemed to be
the address for delivery to the registrant for an communications from the Commission, including any
summons complaint, notice or other written documents or correspondence, unless the registrant
specifies another address for this purpose. CFTC rule 3.30(b), 17 C.F.R. § 3.30(b), provides that each
registrant, while registered and for two years after the termination of registration, must notify NFA
of any change of address, and that failure to do so may result in an order of default in any
Commission or NFA proceedings. Moreover, pursuant to CFTC Rule 3.50, 17 C.F.R. § 3.50, for
purposes of an action for the denial, suspension or revocation of registration, service upon a
registrant will be sufficient if mailed by registered mail or certified mail return receipt requested
properly addressed to the registrant at the address shown on his application or any amendment
thereto, and will be complete upon mailing.
Furman of the U.S. District Court of the Southern District of New York in CFTC v.
Bretas de Freitas, Case No. 1:19-CV-4238 (Default Judgment Order); and (2) the
judgment in a parallel criminal case reflecting that Bretas pled and was adjudicated
guilty, entered on February 28, 2020 by the Honorable Laura Taylor Swain of the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in United States v. Bretas
de Freitas, Case No. 1:19-CR-257 (Criminal Judgment).

PCI and Bretas did not respond to the Commission’s Notice, and on July 22,
2020, I issued a Default Notice finding that PCI and Bretas were in default and
setting deadlines for the Division to file a motion for entry of a default judgment
and for PCI and Bretas to file any opposition to the Division’s motion.? PCI and
Bretas have not responded to the Default Notice or to the Division’s entry of a
default judgment motion. The matter is thus ready for entry of a default judgment.

As a result of their defaults, PCI and Bretas have waived a hearing on all of
the issues and are precluded from introducing evidence of mitigation and
rehabilitation to rebut the strong presumption of unfitness for registration created
by the finding of fact, conclusions of law, and sanctions in the Default Judgment
Order. Thus, the well-plead allegations in the Commission’s Notice—as augmented
by the evidence in proposed findings and conclusions of law in the Division’s Motion

for Default Judgment—are deemed true and conclusive for purposes of finding that

 

3 The Office of Proceedings served that Default Notice in the same manner it served the June 19,
2020 Notice. The Default Notice was “delivered” to an individual at the Miami address, specified in
footnote 1 above, on August 3, 2020 according to the United States Postal Service tracking
information. However, the Default Notice sent to PCI at the Miami address was returned on August
10, 2020, and the Default Notice sent to Bretas in New Jersey was returned on August 24, 2020. In
addition, the email to Fabio. Bretas@phycapital.com received a Mail Delivery System Bounce
message, and the Commission did not receive either a confirmation that the email was read ora
delivery failure message for the email to fabiobretasdefreitas@gmail.com.
PCI and Breitas are both statutorily disqualified from registration under Sections
8a(2)(C), (E), and (H) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 12a(2)(C), (E), and (H). Accordingly, as
explained below, the Division’s Motion for Default Judgment is granted, PCI and
Breitas have been found to be unfit for registration an statutorily disqualified from
registration, and their registrations have been revoked.

II. Findings of Fact

1. PClis a Delaware limited lability company.

2. The address it listed with the Commission is 999 Brickell Ave., Suite 940,
Miami, Florida 33131.

3. PCI has been registered with the Commission as a CPO and a CTA since
September 10, 2014, pursuant to Section 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1) (2018).
In addition, it previously was registered with the Commission in those capacities
between April 15, 2010 and November 14, 2013.

4. Bretas has resided in Miami, Florida and has been registered as an AP of
PCI since September 10, 2014 through the present pursuant to Section 4k(2) and (3)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6k(2),(3). Bretas also previously was registered as an AP of
PCI from January19, 2010 through November 14, 2013. In addition, at all relevant
times, Bretas was Chief Executive Officer CEO of PCI.

5. On May 9, 2019, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action against PCI
and Bretas. The Commission’s complaint alleged, inter alia, that PCI and Bretas
engaged in multiple acts of misappropriation of commodity pool and client funds

and the issuance of materially false account statements to clients, all in violation of
certain anti-fraud provisions of the Act.

6. On October 3, 2019, U.S. District Judge Furman entered a Default
Judgment Order which contained findings of fact and conclusions of law which
confirmed, as alleged in the Complaint, that PCI and Bretas committed fraud in
violation of Sections 4b(a)(1) and 40(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1), 60(1), by
misappropriating client funds and by delivering false account statements to clients.
The Default Judgment Order also, in relevant part, permanently restrains PCI and
Bretas from:

a. directly or indirectly committing fraud in violation of Sections 4b(a)(1) and
Ao(1) of the Act;

b. trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is
defined in Section la(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la(40));

c. entering into any transaction involving “commodity interests” (as that
term is defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3) for their own personal accounts or
for any account in which they have a direct or indirect interest;

d. having any commodity interests traded on their behalf;

e. controlling or directing trading for or on behalf of any other person or
entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests;

f. soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the
purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

g. acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17
C.F.R. § 3.1(a)), agent, or any other officer or employee of any person registered,
exempted from registration, or required to be registered with the Commission,
except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9); and

h. engaging in any business activities related to commodity interests.

7. On February 28, 2020, following a plea in a related criminal action, a
federal district court adjudged Bretas guilty of a felony, namely, conspiracy to
commit wire fraud and commodities fraud under 18 U.S.C. 13849. Bretas’s
conviction was based on his conduct as an owner and AP of PCI and it involved
transactions or advice concerning contracts of sale of a commodity for future
delivery, as well as fraud and misappropriation of commodity pool funds. Judgment
in a Criminal Case, United States v. Bretas de Freitas, No. 1:19-cr-257 (S.D.N.Y.
Feb. 28, 2020), ECF No. 30.

8. The Commission filed a Notice of Intent to Revoke the Registrations of
PCI and Bretas on May 7, 2020.

9. On May 7, 2020 the Commission’s Office of Proceedings served PCI and
Bretas with a copy of the Notice by UPS and email, which was accompanied by a
cover letter and links to the Commission’s Part 3 and 10 Rules. The Notice and a
cover letter with links to the Commission’s Part 3 and 10 Rules were re-served by
certified mail and email on June 19, 2020 to PCI’s and Bretas’ listed address with
the Commission: 999 Brickell Avenue Suite 940 Miami. Florida 33131. The Notice

and letter were also emailed to Fabio.Bretas@Phycapital.com and

 

fabiobretasdefreitas@gmail.com and sent by certified mail to Fabio Bretas de
Freitas at Bergen County Jail, 160 S. River Street, Hackensack, NJ 07601.

10.Commission Regulation 3.30(a), 17 C.F.R. § 3.30(a), provides, in relevant
part, that the address of each registrant as identified on its application for
registration (Form 7-R or Form 8-R) or as submitted on its biographical supplement
(Form 8-R) shall be deemed to be the address for delivery to the registrant for any
communications from the Commission, including any summons, complaint, notice,
or other written documents or correspondence, unless the registrant specifies
another address for this purpose.

11.To date, neither PCI nor Bretas have responded to the Notice.

III. Discussion and Conclusions of Law

Section 8(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 12a(2), sets out eight grounds for denial,
suspension or revocation of registration, known customarily as “statutory
disqualifications.” According to the relevant House Agricultural Commission
Report, each Section 8a(2) disqualification involves a previous formal determination
by a court, or the Commission or other government agency, that a person or firm
has engaged in conduct involving “especially grave offenses that are clearly related
to a person’s [or firm’s] fitness for registration with the Commission.” H.R. Report
No. 97-565, Part I at 50 (May 17, 1982). The report further explained that, since
each Section 8a(2) disqualification is based upon a previous finding or order by a
court, or the Commission or other governmental body, “whether or not a person is
subject to such a disqualification generally is readily ascertainable by checking

officially maintained records.” Jd.
In conjunction with the Commission’s Part 3 rules, a Section 8a(2)
disqualification generally operates as a strong presumption that a person or firm is
conclusively unfit to do business in a relevant registered capacity. The Commission
has noted that the strong presumption of unfitness for registration under Section
8a(2) of the Act rests on the common-sense inference that once an individual or firm
has undertaken serious wrongdoing, as is the case here with PCI and Bretas, a
substantial risk exists that the individual or firm will undertake similar
wrongdoing in the future. See In re Akar, Comm. Fut. L. Rep. § 22,297 (CFTC Feb.
24, 1986). The strong presumption of unfitness can be rebutted by a convincing
showing that allowing a person or firm to become or remain registered will not pose
a risk to the public, including, for example, mitigating circumstances,
rehabilitation, or close supervision by another registrant. See Commission Rules
3.60(b)(2)G) and 3.60(b)(2)Gi)(A)-(C), 17 C.F.R. §§ 3.60(b)(2)@ and 3.60(b)(2)Gi)(A)-
(C). By defaulting, PCI and Bretas have precluded themselves from presenting

such rebuttal evidence.

A. Section 8a(2)(C) of the Act

 

Section 8a(2)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 12a (2)(C), provides that the
Commission may revoke the registration of any person who has been permanently
enjoined by order of a court of competent jurisdiction from certain enumerated
activities, including but not limited to G) acting as a futures commission merchant,
introducing broker, floor broker, floor trader, CTA, CPO, or an AP of any registrant

under the Act, or (ii) engaging in or continuing any activity involving fraud or any
transaction in or advice concerning contracts of sale of a commodity for future
delivery or concerning matters subject to Commission regulation under Section 4c

or 19 of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6c or 23.

B. Section 8a(2)(D) of the Act

 

Section 8a(2)(D) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 12(a)(2)(D) provides that the
Commission may revoke the registration of any person who has been convicted
within ten years preceding the filing of the application for registration or at any
time thereafter of any felony that, among other things, (i) involves any transactions
or advice concerning any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; (ii)
arises out of the conduct of the business of, among others, a CTA, AP of a CTA, a
CPO or an AP of a CPO, or Gii) involves embezzlement, theft, extortion, fraud,
fraudulent conversion, misappropriation of funds, forgery, counterfeiting, false

pretenses, bribery or gambling.

C. Section 8a(2)(E) of the Act

 

Section 8a(2)(E) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 12(a)(2)(E), provides that the
Commission may revoke the registration of any person who has been found, in a
proceeding brought by the Commission, to have violated the Act by committing
fraud or misappropriation of funds within ten years preceding the filing of the

registration application or any time thereafter.

D. Section 8a(2)(H) of the Act

 

Section 8a(2)(H) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 12(a)(2)(H), provides that the

Commission may revoke the registration of any person if revocation of the
registration of any principal of such person is warranted pursuant to Section 8a(2)
of the Act. Section 8a(2)(H) of the Act further provides that “principal,” as used in
Section 8a(2) of the Act, includes a general partner of a partnership or a person who
owns more than 10% of the voting shares of a corporation. Additionally, pursuant to
Regulation 3.1(a)(1), 17 C.F.R. § 3.1(a)() (2019), if an entity is organized as a
limited liability company, “principal” includes any director, president, chief
executive officer, manager, managing member or members vested with the
management authority for the entity, any person in charge of a principal business
unit, division or function subject to regulation by the Commission, and any person
occupying a similar status or performing similar functions, having the power,
directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise, to exercise a controlling
influence over the entity’s activities that are subject to regulation by the

Commission.

The facts set forth above constitute a valid basis for the Commission to
revoke PCI’s registration as a CPO and CTA pursuant to Sections 8a(2)(C), 8a(2)(E)
and 8a(2)(H) and Bretas’ registration as an AP of PCI pursuant to Sections 8a(2)(C),
8a(2)(D) and 8a(2)(E) of the Act.

ORDER

PCI is statutorily disqualified from registration under Sections 8a(2)(C),
8a(2)(E) and 8a(2)(H) of the Act, and Bretas is statutorily disqualified from
registration under Sections 8a(2)(C), 8a(2)(D) and 8a(2)(E) of the Act. Accordingly:

(1) The Division’s Motion for Entry of Default Judgment is granted; (2) PCI and

10
Bretas are found conclusively unfit for registration; and (3) the registrations of PCI

and Bretas are revoked.

Dated: August 31, 2020
/s/ Kavita Kumar Puri
Kavita Kumar Puri
Judgment Officer

 

11
