Release Number 7496-16

 

December 7, 2016

CFTC Orders Paris-Based Société Générale SA to Pay a $450,000 Penalty for Failing to
Timely Report Swap Transactions

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today issued an Order filing and
simultaneously settling charges against Société Générale SA (Société Générale) for failing to properly report certain
non-deliverable forward transactions to a swap data repository (SDR), and failing to timely report to an SDR a large
number of FX swap, FX forward, and non-deliverable forward transactions, in violation of the Commodity Exchange Act
(CEA) and CFTC Regulations. Société Générale is a swap dealer headquartered in Paris, France that has been
provisionally registered with the CFTC in that capacity since December 31, 2012.

The CFTC Order requires Société Générale to pay a $450,000 civil monetary penalty and to cease and desist from
committing further violations of the CEA and CFTC Regulations, as charged.

As stated in the Order, the accuracy and completeness of swap reporting are critical to the Commission's mission to
protect market participants and to ensure market integrity. In particular, the Order states that the CEA requires parties to
a swap transaction to report swap transaction information to a registered SDR in a timely manner, and requires swap
dealers to report swap transactions to an SDR within such time period as prescribed by the CFTC. The Order further
states that CFTC Regulations 43 and 45 specify requirements for real-time public reporting, public availability of swap
transaction and pricing data, and reporting of creation and continuation data to an SDR. According to the Order, the
reporting requirements are designed to enhance transparency, promote standardization, and reduce systemic risk.

The Order finds that in July 2014 Société Générale implemented a software update to its FX trading platform which led to
the trading platform incorrectly coding Société Générale’s counterparty as the reporting counterparty for certain FX
swap, FX forward, and non-deliverable forward transactions, which resulted in no reports being made to the SDR
regarding the swaps. According to the Order, Société Générale did not discover the error until January 2015, and it was
not until April 2015 that Société Générale was able to fix it. The Order finds that Société Générale initiated a project to
identify trades affected by the coding error and in September 2015 notified CFTC staff about its failure to report.
According to the Order, Société Générale back-loaded approximately 51,821 unreported transactions in October 2015
and in April and May 2016 made submissions to its SDR for approximately 2,024 non-deliverable forward transactions.

The Order recognizes that Société Générale cooperated with the CFTC’s investigation by self-reporting its errors,
undertaking an internal investigation, and taking remedial action to correct its reporting failures.

CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Diane M. Romaniuk, Ava Gould, Mary Elizabeth
Spear, Scott Williamson and Rosemary Hollinger. The Division of Market Oversight staff members responsible for this
matter are Daniel J. Bucsa and Thomas Guerin.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: December 7, 2016
