2020-BCFP-0023 Document’ Filed 12/08/2020 Page 1 of 24

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING File No.
2020-BCFP- 0023

 

In the Matter of: CONSENT ORDER

RAB Performance Recoveries, LLC

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed RAB
Performance Recoveries, LLC’s (RAB) (Respondent, as defined below) debt-
collection activities and has identified the following law violations: in the Subject
States where Respondent operated, it falsely implied that it had a legally
enforceable claim for payment and threatened to take action that could not legally
be taken by sending consumers demand letters threatening litigation and filing
debt-collection lawsuits without the licensure required to recoverthrough the
judicial process under applicable state law, in violation of § 1692e(5) and (10) of
the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), 15 U.S.C. § 1692 et seg., and §§

1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12
U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563,
5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).
I.
Jurisdiction
1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $$ 5563 and 5565. The Bureau has independent

authority to enforce the CFPA and the FDCPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(12)(H),

(14).
Il.
Stipulation
2. Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consentto the Issuance ofa

Consent Order,” dated November 25, 2020 (Stipulation), which is
incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this
Stipulation, Respondent has consented to the issuance of this Consent
Order by the Bureau under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§
5563 and 5565, without admitting or denying any ofthe findings of fact,
conclusions of law, or wrongdoing, except that Respondent admits the
facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondent and

the subject matter ofthis action.
AAA TSE OA me
SOD. ROE B.NN83
he A Pe OP AS

HII.
Definitions
3. The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Affected Consumers” means consumers whose Subject Accounts
Respondent purchased and then threatened to sue or sued on without
the licensure required to recover through the judicial process in oneof
the Subject States during the Relevant Period.

b. “Assisting Others” means helping, aiding, or providing support to
others, including but not limited to:

1. consulting in any form whatsoever;

il. formulating or providing, or arranging for the formulation or
provision of, any advertising or marketing material, including,
but not limited to, any telephone sales script, direct mail
solicitation, or the text of any Internet website, email, or other
electronic communication;

lil. providing names of, or assisting in the generation of, potential
customers; and

IV. participating in or providing services related to the offering,
sale, or servicing of a product, or the collection of payments for

a product.
AAA Pee Ame
POP OA-RCE ROO? 2
fn ka ae LP :

cadet!
©
B
4
of
ath
av
i)
COO
cos
Pd
+A
Lf
YB
S;
3

C. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
entered on the administrative docket.

d. “Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

e. “Related Consumer Action” meansa private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent
Order.

f. “Relevant Period” means the period from July 21, 2011 to August 30,
2014 as to Rhode Island and New Jersey, andthe period from October
1, 2013 to October 24, 2013 as to Connecticut.

g. ‘Respondent’ means RAB Performance Recoveries, LLC, its
successors and assigns.

h. “Service Providers” is defined by 12 U.S.C. § 5481(26), and includes
and person that provides a material service to a covered person, in
connection with the offering or provision by such covered person ofa
consumer financial product or service, including a person that—{1)

participates in designing, operating, or maintaining the consumer
SHPO ROERO033
hae Ne s

athe A A

1.

il.

lil.

yaoi?

Tov

financial product or service; or (11) processes transactions relating to
the consumer financial product or service (other than unknowingly or
incidentally transmitting or processing financial data in a manner that
such data is undifferentiated from othertypes of data ofthe same form
as the person transmits or processes). “Service Provider” does not
include a person solely by virtue of such person offering or providing
to a covered person (1) a support service of a type provided to
businesses generally or a similarly ministerial service; or (11) time or
space for an advertisement for a consumer financial product or service
through print, newspaper, or electronic media.
“Subject Accounts” means:

in Connecticut, consumer-debt accounts on which Respondent

sent demand letters or filed lawsuits in between October | and

24, 2013;

in Rhode Island, consumer-debt accounts on which Respondent

sent demand letters or filed lawsuits in between July 21, 2011

and August 30, 2014; and

in New Jersey, all consumer installment loans, installments

notes, andretail installment contracts as well as retail charge

accounts issued by the seller of the goods charged to the
account and not issued by athird party or a financial institution
as defined in N.J. Stat. § 17:11C-2 and N.J. Stat. § 17:16C-1(b),
where Respondent filed consumer lawsuits between July 21,
2011 and August 30, 2014.
J. “Subject States” means Connecticut, New Jersey, and Rhode Island.
IV.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions
The Bureau finds the following:
RAB is a “covered person” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6).
See also 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5) and (15)(A)(x). RAB is also a “debt collector,”
as defined in § 1692a(6) ofthe FDCPA. 15 U.S.C. § 1692a(6).
From at least 1999 through the end of 2012, Respondent purchased
consumer-debt accounts from debt brokers and placed the accounts for
collections with collections law firms in the states where the consumers were
located.
After Respondent placed the consumer-debt accounts with collections law
firms, the collections law firms sent the consumer debtors letters demanding
payment of the full past-due amounts, as well as interest and fees.
These demand letters were sent on law-firm letterhead, referenced the fact

that the firm has been “retained” for the “collection of this debt.” And,
10.

11.

AAA Pee Ame
POP OA-RCE ROO? 2
fn ka ae LP :

cadet!
2
D
i?
ath
av
wt
Co
Se
MD
+A
Lf
D
a
2

before litigation, the law firms offered opportunities to settle the consumers’
accounts.

If consumers did not settle their accounts with Respondent in response to
these demand letters, Respondent sued on a majority of the accounts.

The vast majority of Respondent’s collections lawsuits resulted in default
judgments against non-appearing consumers. After securing these default
judgments, Respondent used judgment-enforcement mechanisms, including
writs of attachment, execution, and garnishment, to collect on the judgments.
Respondent stopped purchasing consumer debts in 2012 and filed its last
collections lawsuit without the licensure required by applicable state law in
August 2014. Since then, Respondent has administered a portfolio of
judgments that it obtained against consumers, as well as a handful of
stipulated payment agreements that it had entered into with debtors whose
accounts it had purchased.

For some or all of the Relevant Period, Respondent was required to be
licensed under the laws of the Subject States to recover payment of
consumer debts through the judicial process. But for some or all of the
Relevant Period, Respondent both threatened litigation and sued consumers

without the licensure required by law in the Subject States.
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

AIO ROE OOP] Deeoment 1 Flea tome onon ~
ne a Se OTA ROMA ULP EER Gg PPPS Per eo

- a ea
Pane & ot a
Po GaN LP RE OF

Findings and Conclusions as to the FDCPA Violations

The FDCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 1692 et seq., is a Federal consumer financial law
designed to eliminate abusive debt-collection practices, promote fair debt
collection, and provide consumers with an avenueto dispute and obtain
validation of debt information in order to ensure the information’s accuracy.
The Bureau is empowered to enforce the FDCPA under its organic statute,
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5564(a)-(b), 5481(12)(H), (14).

The FDCPA applies to “debt collectors,” which the Act defines alternatively
as those engaged “in any business the principal purpose of which is the
collection of any debts” andthose “who regularly collect[]” debts “owed or
due another.” 15 U.S.C. § 1692a(6).

Respondent is subject to the FDCPA because the principal purpose of its
business is the collection of debts.

FDCPA § 1692e(5) prohibits threats “totake any action that cannot legally
be taken or that is not intended to be taken.” 15 U.S.C. § 1692e(5).

In dozens of instances during the Relevant Period, Respondent threatened to
sue or sued consumers whose debts it owned without the legal authority to
do so under Subject-State licensure laws.

Every demand Respondent made to Subject-State consumers without the

required licensure, whether through a demand letter referencing a
19.

20.

21.

22.

ARAA MMe ARMS my ak et A IN mh at NA
SOHO. REE BLAS Macument 7 Filed TAB fe oeg Pane G of 24
he LP I NE Wee of : - PRP OP A ea Po GaN ae LE

conditional offer to settlethe account or a lawsuit, threatened a legal action
that Respondent had no authority to take. Each demandthus violated
FDCPA § 1692e(5).
FDCPA § 1692e(10) prohibits “[t |he use of any false representation or
deceptive means to collect or attempt to collect any debt or to obtain
information conceming aconsumer.” 15 U.S.C. § 1692e(10).
Every demand Respondent made of Subject-State consumers without the
required licensure, whether through a demand letter referencing a
conditional offer to settle the account or a lawsuit, falsely implied that
Respondent hada legally enforceable claim for payment from consumers
when it lacked any such legally enforceable claim. Each demand thus
violated FDCPA § 1692e(10).

Findings and Conclusions as to CFPA Violations
CFPA § 1036(a)(1)(A), 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A), provides that it is
“unlawful for any covered person to offer or provide to a consumer any
financial product or service not in conformity with Federal consumer law, or
otherwise commit any act or omission in violation of a Federal consumer
financial law.”
Respondent is subject to this prohibition because it is a covered person

under the CFPA.
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

Respondent violated this prohibition when it violated the FDCPA
provisions set forth above.

CFPA §§ 1031 and 1036(a)(1)(B), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536(a)(1)(B),
prohibit covered person from engaging “in any unfair, deceptive, or abusive
act or practice.”

Respondent is subject to this prohibition because it is a covered person under
the CFPA.

An act or practice is deceptive under the CFPA if it misleads or is likely to
mislead a reasonable consumer, and the misrepresentation is material.
Respondent’s threats to sue and actual lawsuits on the Subject Accounts
during the Relevant Period implicitly represented that it had a legally
enforceable right to recover payment from consumers through the judicial
process when, in fact, its failure to adhere to applicable state-licensure laws
meant it had nosuch right.

These misrepresentations were material because a reasonable consumer’s
decision whether and howto respond to a demand letter or lawsuit would
likely be affected by their knowledge that the collector had no legal right to
payment on their accountthat could be enforced through the judicial

process.
29.

30.

31.

32.

2020-BCFP-0023 Document’ Filed 12/08/2020 Page 11 of 24

These misrepresentations were thus false, misleading, and material, and

violated the CFPA’s prohibition against deceptive acts or practices.

ORDER
V.
Conduct Provisions

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:

Respondent, and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with the collection of debts, may not misrepresent,
or assist others in misrepresenting, expressly or impliedly, that Respondent
has a legally enforceable right to recover the debt through the judicial
process. Respondent represents that its present members have actual notice
of this Consent Order and that it will deliver this Consent Order to any
future member(s) at or before the time of the transfer or acquisition of any
membership interest in the Respondent.

Respondent, acting directly or indirectly, is permanently restrained from
collecting on the Subject Accounts. Respondent is also permanently
restrained from Assisting Others in engaging in such conduct.

Respondent must take the following affirmative actions:
33.

34.

a. take all necessary steps to vacate all judgments not discharged in
bankruptcy or previously satisfied on the Subject Accounts;

b. suspend and seek judicial dissolution of all writs of attachment,
execution, or garnishment, and any other post-judgment enforcement
devices, used to collect on judgments Respondent obtained on the
Subject Accounts; and

C. cease collecting on any stipulated agreements Respondent entered into
with consumers on the Subject Accounts, andsend consumers notices
of accord and satisfaction of such stipulated agreements.

VI.
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalties

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the

violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order and

considering the factorsin 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a

civil money penalty of $204,000 to the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money

penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in

compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
35.

36.

37.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in

the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) ofthe CFPA,

12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

Respondent must treat the civil money penalty paid underthis Consent

Order as a penalty paid to the government for all purposes. Regardless of

how the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or

b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil money
penalty paid under this Consent Order.

To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related

Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondentis entitled to,

nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory

monetary remedies imposed in any Related Consumer Action because of the

civil money penalty paid in this action. Ifthe court in any Related Consumer

Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory monetary

remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money penalty paid

in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil
38.

39.

40.

4].

Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry ofa final order
granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the amount of
the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will not be
considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the amount
of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondent relinquishes all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid to
the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be returned
to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it has already have done so,
must furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer identification numbers, which may
be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 60 days of the entry ofa final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement

Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
42.

43.

APA PRR Am A ~ : of pansy © TNO PR
AHH Bere AVIS Pree ey ceed of Clad 42 FAG FOASN
sed ek eae St Le bead re de 8 Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas So PR AR PE eee
Sa tet ae BA AEN Pa PikaAs ot LP é :

notification must indicate the amountof redress, if any, that Respondent paid

or are required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.
VIL.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect

compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not

limited to the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by or
against Respondent, a change in Respondent’s name or address, or a change
in the membership interest of Respondent. Respondent must provide this
notice, if practicable, at least 30 days before the development, but no later
than 14 days after the development.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal address as points of contact, which the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. — Identify all businesses for which any member of the Respondent is the

majority owner, or directly or indirectly controls, by all of their
44.

45.

PPA PERERA AA ~ cA puss SN Ee
2OA BOK mM AV. Peek crescendo CilaN TORS FOO
et bet habe t ob RL Pos Pipes ees carar ee fioas Pose da eb eit
Ba Sf tn ST et at BA AEN Pa PikaAs at LP RSE re

names, telephonenumbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses;

C. Describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

d. Describe in detail any member’s involvement in any business for
which he performs services in any capacity or which he wholly or
partially owns, including the member’s title, role, responsibilities,
participation, authority, control, and ownership.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 42 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective

Date, Respondent must submit to the Enforcement Director an accurate

written compliance progress report (Compliance Report), which, at a

minimum:

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent have
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent

Order; and
46.

47.

48.

APA PRR Am A ~ : of pansy © TNO PR
AHH Bere AVIS Pree ey ceed of Clad 42 FAG FOASN
sed ek eae St Le bead re de 8 Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas So PR AR PE eee
Sa tet ae BA AEN Pa PikaAs ot LP é :

b. Attaches acopy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section VIII unless previously submitted to the Bureau.
VIII.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent , for any business for
which it is the majority owner or which he directly or indirectly controls,
must deliver a copy of this Consent Order to its managers, members,
employees, Service Providers, or other agents and representatives who have
responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Consent Order.
For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent and its members must — for
any business subject to the Bureau’s jurisdiction of which it or its members
is the majority owner, or that it or its members directly or indirectly control
— deliver a copy of this Consent Order to any business entity resulting from
any change in structure referred to in Section VII, including any future

managers, members, employees, Service Providers, or other agents and
49.

50.

S1.

representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.
Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with alist ofall persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was
delivered through that date under Paragraphs 47-48 and a copy of all signed
and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under
Paragraph 49.

IX.

Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must create and retain the following business records, for any
business subject to the Bureau’s jurisdiction for which Respondent or its
members, individually or collectively, is a majority owner or which it
directly or indirectly controls:

a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
52.

53.

with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions

tothe Bureau; and
b. all consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received

directly or indirectly, such as through athird party), and any responses

to those complaints or requests.
Respondent must makethe documents identified in Paragraph 50 available
to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

X.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “In re RAB
Performance Recoveries, LLC, File No. 2020 - BCFP - 0023,” and send
them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552.
54.

55.

APA PRR Am A »~ : of ‘ » FEN ER
AHH Bere AVIS Pree ey ceed of lad TO FAG OAS
sed ek eae St Le bead re de 8 Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas So PR AR PE eee
Sa tet ae BA AEN Pa PikaAs ot LP é :

XI.
Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must cooperate fully with the Bureau in this matter andin any
investigation related to or associated with the conduct described in Section
IV. Respondent must provide truthful and complete information, evidence,
and testimony. Respondent must appear for interviews, discovery, hearings,
trials, and any other proceedings that the Bureau may reasonably request
upon 15 days written notice, or other reasonable notice, at such places and
times as the Bureau may designate, without the service of compulsory
process.

XII.

Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must provide requested information related to its compliance with this
Order, which must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn

testimony; or produce documents.
56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

ARAN SAE ANAS PA ee et emt ot AEN IY mo ot ENA
POSO.R CE ELLOS Pocument 7 Pilacd TRAORSE OSG Rane ? 1 of 34
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE tt BHAA Ed POEL of a rhe ere Y CARS a ne)

For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview any employee
or other person affiliated with Respondent who has agreed to such an
interview. The person interviewed may have counsel present.
Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XIV.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e. g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) ifhe or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement

Director must be in writing.
61.

62.

63.

ARAA RAPER ANAS PN oe a emt ot AEN IY mo ON ENA
POSO.R CE ELLOS Pocument 7 Pilad TBfO8 serosa Pana 2? af oa
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE a BHAA Ed POPPA Of a ie PTAA Bro tin Mat

XIV.

Administrative Provisions
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau, or any other governmental agency, from taking any other action
against Respondent, except as described in Paragraph 62.
The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final

Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

APA PRR Am A ~ : of pansy © TNO PR
AHH Bere AVIS Pree ey ceed of Clad 42 FAG FOASN
sed ek eae St Le bead re de 8 Bora ch as aarty : Pe Peas So PR AR PE eee
Sa tet ae BA AEN Pa PikaAs ot LP é :

expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable, except to the
extent that, and until such time as, any provisions of this Consent Order have
been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau.
Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of thetransferee or assigneeto comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amountof civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found, and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete

agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
69.

 

2020-BCFP-0023 Document’ Filed 12/08/2020 Page 24 of 24

_ representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent

Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing the Respondents, to violate any law, rule, or

regulation.

IT ISSO ORDERED, this on of December, 2020.

Lithecnry Kens

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

24
