Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 1 of 70 PagelD: 19

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY

CASE NO. 20-cr-539

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
v.
ALCON PTE LTD

Defendant.

/

 

DEFERRED PROSECUTION AGREEMENT

Defendant Alcon Pte Ltd (the “Company”), pursuant to the authority granted by the
Company’s Board of Directors reflected in Attachment B, which is incorporated by reference into
this Agreement, and the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section
(the “Fraud Section”) and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (the
“Office’), enter into this deferred prosecution agreement (the “Agreement”). Alcon Inc., which is
not a defendant in this matter, also agrees, pursuant to the authority granted by Alcon Inc.’s Board
of Directors, to certain terms and obligations of the Agreement as described below. The terms and
conditions of this Agreement are as follows:

Criminal Information and Acceptance of Responsibility

1. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Fraud Section and the Office will
file the attached one-count criminal Information (the “Information’) in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey charging the Company with conspiracy to commit an offense

against the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is, to
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 2 of 70 PagelD: 20

violate the books and records provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”),
as amended, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a). In so
doing, the Company: (a) knowingly waives its right to indictment on these charges, as well as all
rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution, Title
18, United States Code, Section 3161, and Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b); and (b)
knowingly waives any objection with respect to venue to any charges by the United States arising
out of the conduct described in the Statement of Facts attached hereto as Attachment A (the
“Statement of Facts’), which is incorporated by reference into this Agreement, and consents to the
filing of the Information, as provided under the terms of this Agreement, in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey. The Fraud Section and the Office agree to defer
prosecution of the Company pursuant to the terms and conditions described below.

2. The Company admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible under United
States law for the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as charged in the
Information, and as set forth in the attached Statement of Facts, and that the allegations described
in the Information and the facts described in the attached Statement of Facts are true and accurate.
Should the Fraud Section or the Office pursue the prosecution that is deferred by this Agreement,
the Company and Alcon Inc. stipulate to the admissibility of the attached Statement of Facts in
any proceeding by the Fraud Section or the Office, including any trial, guilty plea, or sentencing
proceeding, and will not contradict anything in the attached Statement of Facts at any such
proceeding.

Term of the Agreement

3. This Agreement is effective for a period beginning on the date on which the
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 3 of 70 PagelD: 21

Information is filed and ending three years from that date (the “Term”). The Company, and the
parent company, Alcon Inc., agree, however, that, in the event the Fraud Section and the Office
determine, in their sole discretion, that the Company or Alcon Inc. has knowingly violated any
provision of this Agreement or has failed to completely perform or fulfill each of the Company’s
or Alcon Inc.’s obligations under this Agreement, an extension or extensions of the Term of the
Agreement may be imposed by the Fraud Section and the Office, in their sole discretion, for up to
a total additional time period of one year, without prejudice to the Fraud Section’s or the Office’s
right to proceed as provided in Paragraphs 14 to 18 below. Any extension of the Agreement
extends all terms of this Agreement, including the terms of the reporting requirement in
Attachment D (the “Reporting Requirements”), for an equivalent period. Conversely, in the event
the Fraud Section and the Office find, in their sole discretion, that there exists a change in
circumstances sufficient to eliminate the Reporting Requirements, and that the other provisions of
this Agreement have been satisfied, the Agreement may be terminated early. If the Court rejects
the Agreement, all provisions of the Agreement shall be deemed null and void, and the Term shall
be deemed to have not begun.
Relevant Considerations
4. The Fraud Section and the Office enter into this Agreement based on the individual
facts and circumstances presented by this case and by the Company and Alcon Inc., including:
a. the Company did not receive voluntary disclosure credit pursuant to the
FCPA Corporate Enforcement Policy in the Department of Justice Manual 9-47.120, or pursuant
to the United States Sentencing Guidelines (“U.S.S.G.” or “Sentencing Guidelines”), because its

disclosure of the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts was not timely, there was
an imminent threat of disclosure to the Fraud Section and the Office, and the Company’s former
corporate parent, Novartis AG, was subject to reporting obligations under a prior resolution with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”);

b. the Company received full credit for its cooperation, as well as Alcon Inc.’s
and Novartis AG’s cooperation, with the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s investigation, including
conducting a thorough internal investigation; making regular factual presentations to the Fraud
Section and the Office; producing extensive documentation, including documents located outside
of the United States, after taking steps that the Company and its affiliates determined complied
with applicable foreign data privacy, confidentiality, and discovery laws; and providing
translations of foreign language documents;

C. the Company, Alcon Inc., and their former corporate parent companies and
affiliates engaged in remedial measures, including implementing enhanced policies and procedures
relating to, among other things, accounting, anti-corruption, payments to third parties, gifts, travel,
and entertainment; conducting internal reviews and investigations, including site visits, audits, and
risk assessments; working with outside counsel to conduct an extensive internal investigation of
the Company’s operations in Asia; terminating high-level executives of the Company and
disciplining certain other employees of the Company and its affiliates; and terminating the
Company’s relationship with the third-party distributor company involved in the conduct described
in the Statement of Facts;

d. the Company and Alcon Inc. have committed to continuing to enhance their

compliance programs and internal controls, including ensuring that their compliance programs
wed ON TE I mo mF TA PA TPA AA

Mian ORPSIeCNR Rane A nf 7O Danall: OR

PORWR APRS gaol a. PO CALAN at ee Gk fF CAMARO EE. fad
ay at

™ *

satisfy the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C to the Agreement (the “Corporate
Compliance Program’);

e. based on the Company’s and Alcon Inc.’s remediation and the state of their
compliance programs, and the Company’s and Alcon Inc.’s agreement to report to the Fraud
Section and the Office as set forth in the Reporting Requirements, the Fraud Section and the Office
determined that an independent compliance monitor is unnecessary;

f. Novartis AG, the Company’s former parent company, has resolved with the
SEC through a cease-and-desist proceeding relating to the conduct described in the attached
Statement of Facts and other conduct, and has agreed to pay $92,300,000 in disgorgement and
prejudgment interest of $20,500,000;

g. the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct, as described in the
attached Statement of Facts, including the falsification of books, records, and accounts to conceal
improper payments to health care providers (“HCPs”) employed by public institutions in Vietnam,
as well as the duration of the misconduct and the involvement of high-level executives of the
Company;

h. the Company has no prior criminal history;

1. the Company has agreed to continue to cooperate with the Fraud Section
and the Office in any ongoing investigation as described in Paragraph 5 below;

j. accordingly, after considering (a) through (1) above, the Company received
an aggregate discount of 25 percent off the bottom of the otherwise-applicable Sentencing

Guidelines fine range.
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 6 of 70 PagelD: 24

Future Cooperation and Disclosure Requirements

5. The Company shall cooperate fully with the Fraud Section and the Office in any
and all matters relating to the conduct described in this Agreement and the attached Statement of
Facts and other conduct under investigation by the Fraud Section and the Office at any time during
the Term, subject to applicable laws and regulations, until the later of the date upon which all
investigations and prosecutions arising out of such conduct are concluded, or the end of the Term.
At the request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall also cooperate fully with
other domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as the
Multilateral Development Banks (the “MDBs”), in any investigation of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries or affiliates, or any of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, and
consultants, or any other party, in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this
Agreement and the attached Statement of Facts and other conduct under investigation by the Fraud
Section and the Office. The Company’s cooperation pursuant to this Paragraph is subject to
applicable laws and regulations, including relevant data privacy and national security laws, as well
as valid claims of attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine; however, the
Company must provide to the Fraud Section and the Office a log of any information or cooperation
that is not provided based on an assertion of law, regulation, or privilege, and the Company bears
the burden of establishing the validity of any such assertion. The Company agrees that its

cooperation pursuant to this Paragraph shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
a. The Company shall truthfully disclose all factual information with respect
to its activities, those of its subsidiaries and affiliates, and those of its present and former directors,

officers, employees, agents, and consultants, including any evidence or allegations and internal or
external investigations, about which the Company has any knowledge or about which the Fraud
Section and the Office may inquire. This obligation of truthful disclosure includes, but is not
limited to, the obligation of the Company to provide to the Fraud Section and the Office, upon
request, any document, record, or other tangible evidence about which the Fraud Section and the
Office may inquire of the Company.

b. Upon request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Company shall
designate knowledgeable employees, agents, or attorneys to provide to the Fraud Section and the
Office the information and materials described in Paragraph 5(a) above on behalf of the Company.
It is further understood that the Company must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate
information.

C. The Company shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews or
testimony, as requested by the Fraud Section and the Office, present or former officers, directors,
employees, agents, and consultants of the Company. This obligation includes, but is not limited
to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, all meetings requested by the
Fraud Section and the Office, and interviews with domestic or foreign law enforcement and
regulatory authorities. Cooperation under this Paragraph shall include identification of witnesses
who, to the knowledge of the Company, may have material information regarding the matters
being investigated or prosecuted.

d. With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records, or other
tangible evidence provided to the Fraud Section and the Office pursuant to this Agreement, the
Company consents to any and all disclosures, subject to applicable laws and regulations, to other

governmental authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign government,
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 8 of 70 PagelD: 26

as well as the MDBs, of such materials as the Fraud Section and the Office, in their sole discretion,

shall deem appropriate.

6. In addition to the obligations in Paragraph 5, during the Term, should the Company

learn of any evidence or allegation of conduct that may constitute a violation of the FCPA anti-

bribery or accounting provisions had the conduct occurred within the jurisdiction of the United

States, the Company shall promptly report such evidence or allegation to the Fraud Section and

the Office.

Payment of Monetary Penalty

7. The Fraud Section, the Office, and the Company agree that application of the

Sentencing Guidelines to determine the applicable fine range yields the following analysis:

a.

b.

The November 1, 2018 version of the U.S.S.G. is applicable to this matter.

Offense Level. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 2B1.1, the total offense level is 27,
calculated as follows:

§ 2B1.1(a)(1) Base Offense Level 7

§ 2B1.1(b)(1)(J) Value of Benefit Received +18
(more than $3,500,000 but not

more than $9,500,000)

§ 2B1.1 (b)(10)(B) Outside of the U.S. +2
TOTAL 27

Base Fine. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 8C2.4(a)(2), the base fine is $8,500,000.

Culpability Score. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 8C2.5, the culpability score is 7,
calculated as follows:

(a) Base Culpability Score 5
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 9 of 70 PagelD: 27

(b)(2) The organization had 1,000 or more employees and
an individual within high-level personnel of the
organization participated in, condoned, or was
willfully ignorant of the offense +4

(g)(2) The organization fully cooperated in the
investigation and clearly demonstrated recognition
and affirmative acceptance of responsibility for its
criminal conduct -2

TOTAL

Calculation of Fine Range:

 

Base Fine $8,500,000
Multipliers 1.4(min)/2.8(max)
Fine Range $11,900,000 / $23,800,000

The Company agrees to pay a total monetary penalty in the amount of $8,925,000 (the “Total
Criminal Fine”). The Total Criminal Fine will be paid to the United States Treasury within ten
business days of the execution of this Agreement. The Company, the Fraud Section, and the Office
agree that this penalty is appropriate given the facts and circumstances of this case, including the
Relevant Considerations described in Paragraph 4 of this Agreement. The Total Criminal Fine is
final and shall not be refunded. Furthermore, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed an
agreement by the Fraud Section and the Office that the Total Criminal Fine is the maximum penalty
that may be imposed in any future prosecution, and the Fraud Section and the Office are not
precluded from arguing in any future prosecution that the Court should impose a higher fine,
although the Fraud Section and the Office agree that under those circumstances, they will

recommend to the Court that any amount paid under this Agreement should be offset against any
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 10 of 70 PagelD: 28

fine the Court imposes as part of a future judgment. The Company acknowledges that no tax
deduction may be sought in connection with the payment of any part of the Total Criminal Fine.
The Company shall not seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification
from any source with regard to the penalty or disgorgement amounts that the Company pays
pursuant to this Agreement or any other agreement entered into with an enforcement authority or
regulator, including the SEC, concerning the facts set forth in the attached Statement of Facts,
except that the Company may seek reimbursement and indemnification from its parent company,
Alcon Inc. Alcon Inc. shall not seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source with regard to the penalty or disgorgement amounts that Alcon
Inc. pays, directly or indirectly, including through rer1mbursement, to the Company, in association
with this Agreement or any other agreement entered into with an enforcement authority or
regulator, including the SEC, concerning the facts set forth in the attached Statement of Facts,
except that Alcon Inc. may seek re1mbursement and indemnification from Novartis AG. Alcon
Inc. acknowledges and Novartis AG has acknowledged that no tax deduction may be sought in
connection with the payment, reimbursement, or indemnification of any part of the Total Criminal
Fine.
Conditional Release from Liability
8. Subject to Paragraphs 14 to 18, the Fraud Section and the Office agree, except as

provided in this Agreement, that they will not bring any criminal or civil case against the Company,
Alcon Inc., or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates, relating to any of the conduct described in the
attached Statement of Facts or the Information filed pursuant to this Agreement. The Fraud Section

and the Office, however, may use any information related to the conduct described in the attached

10
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 11 of 70 PagelD: 29

Statement of Facts against the Company, Alcon Inc., or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates: (a)
in a prosecution for perjury or obstruction of justice; (b) in a prosecution for making a false
statement; (c) in a prosecution or other proceeding relating to any crime of violence; or (d) ina
prosecution or other proceeding relating to a violation of any provision of Title 26 of the United
States Code.

a. This Agreement does not provide any protection against prosecution for any
future conduct by the Company, Alcon Inc., or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates.

b. In addition, this Agreement does not provide any protection against
prosecution of any individuals, regardless of their affiliation with the Company, Alcon Inc., or any
of their subsidiaries or affiliates.

Corporate Compliance Program

9. The Company and Alcon Inc. represent that they have implemented and will
continue to implement a compliance and ethics program designed to prevent and detect violations
of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws throughout their operations, including those
of their affiliates, agents, and joint ventures, and those of their contractors and subcontractors
whose responsibilities include interacting with foreign officials or other activities carrying a high
risk of corruption, including, but not limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C.

10. In order to address any deficiencies in their internal accounting controls, policies,
and procedures, the Company and Alcon Inc. represent that they have undertaken, and will
continue to undertake in the future, in a manner consistent with all of their obligations under this
Agreement, a review of their existing internal accounting controls, policies, and procedures,

regarding compliance with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. Where necessary

1]
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 12 of 70 PagelD: 30

and appropriate, the Company and Alcon Inc. agree to modify their existing compliance programs,
including internal controls, compliance policies, and procedures in order to ensure that they
maintain: (a) an effective system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure the making
and keeping of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-corruption
compliance program that incorporates relevant internal accounting controls, as well as policies and
procedures designed to effectively detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other applicable
anti-corruption laws. The compliance programs, including the internal accounting controls
systems, will include, but not be limited to, the minimum elements set forth in Attachment C.
Corporate Compliance Reporting

11. Alcon Inc. agrees that it will report to the Fraud Section and the Office annually
during the Term regarding remediation and implementation of the compliance measures described
in Attachment C. These reports will be prepared in accordance with Attachment D.

Deferred Prosecution

12. In consideration of the undertakings agreed to by the Company and Alcon Inc.
herein, the Fraud Section and the Office agree that any prosecution of the Company for the conduct
set forth in the attached Statement of Facts be and hereby is deferred for the Term. To the extent
that there is conduct disclosed by the Company or Alcon Inc. that is not set forth in the attached
Statement of Facts, such conduct will not be exempt from further prosecution and is not within the
scope of or relevant to this Agreement.

13. The Fraud Section and the Office further agree that if the Company and Alcon Inc.
fully comply with all of their obligations under this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office

will not continue the criminal prosecution against the Company described in Paragraph 1 and, at

12
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 13 of 70 PagelD: 31

the conclusion of the Term, this Agreement shall expire. Within six months of the Agreement’s
expiration, the Fraud Section and the Office shall seek dismissal with prejudice of the Information
filed against the Company described in Paragraph 1, and agree not to file charges in the future
against the Company, Alcon Inc., or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates based on the conduct
described in this Agreement and the attached Statement of Facts.
Breach of the Agreement

14. If, during the Term: (a) the Company commits any felony under U.S. federal law;
(b) the Company or Alcon Inc. provides, in connection with this Agreement, deliberately false,
incomplete, or misleading information, including in connection with its disclosure of information
about individual culpability; (c) the Company fails to cooperate as set forth in Paragraphs 5 and 6
of this Agreement; (d) the Company or Alcon Inc. fails to implement a compliance program as set
forth in Paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Agreement and Attachment C; (e) the Company commits any
act that, had it occurred within the jurisdictional reach of the FCPA, would be a violation of the
FCPA; or (f) the Company or Alcon Inc. otherwise fails to completely perform or fulfill each of
the Company’s and Alcon Inc.’s obligations under the Agreement, regardless of whether the Fraud
Section and the Office become aware of such a breach after the Term is complete, the Company,
Alcon Inc., and their subsidiaries and affiliates, shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any
federal criminal violation of which the Fraud Section and the Office have knowledge, including,
but not limited to, the charges in the Information described in Paragraph 1, which may be pursued
by the Fraud Section and the Office in the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey or any other appropriate venue. Determination of whether the Company or Alcon Inc. has

breached the Agreement and whether to pursue prosecution of the Company, Alcon Inc., or their

13
~ aA OOO PAPA? ~ ae gtk CoN TR
Mace 2 ole ASSO 5 PRAl Pacument 2 Fuller! OBfeSs/ek
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe LAP Pa my Ra APRS Cael

subsidiaries or affiliates, shall be in the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s sole discretion. Any such
prosecution may be premised on information provided by the Company, Alcon Inc., their
subsidiaries or affiliates, or their personnel. Any such prosecution relating to the conduct
described in the attached Statement of Facts or relating to conduct known to the Fraud Section and
the Office prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred by the
applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement may be commenced
against the Company, Alcon Inc., or their subsidiaries or affiliates, notwithstanding the expiration
of the statute of limitations, between the signing of this Agreement and the expiration of the Term
plus one year. Thus, by signing this Agreement, the Company and Alcon Inc. agree that the statute
of limitations with respect to any such prosecution that is not time-barred on the date of the signing
of this Agreement shall be tolled for the Term plus one year. In addition, the Company agrees that
the statute of limitations as to any violation of federal law that occurs during the Term will be
tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs until the earlier of the date upon which the
Fraud Section and the Office are made aware of the violation or the duration of the Term plus five
years, and that this period shall be excluded from any calculation of time for purposes of the
application of the statute of limitations.

15. In the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company or Alcon
Inc. has breached this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office agree to provide the Company
and Alcon Inc. with written notice of such breach prior to instituting any prosecution resulting
from such breach. Within thirty days of receipt of such notice, the Company and Alcon Inc. shall
have the opportunity to respond to the Fraud Section and the Office in writing to explain the nature

and circumstances of such breach, as well as the actions the Company and Alcon Inc. have taken

14
~ a ae oP PAPA? ~ - on SO’ IRE I ax ar sae
Mace 2 Ofer Ah eO SAY Pyactomeant 2 Fueri AESSS/2OO Bane TR af OR
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe LAP Pa my aa APRS Soe Ae PU CAMRY Aled Ab FAS

to address and remediate the situation, which explanation the Fraud Section and the Office shall
consider in determining whether to pursue prosecution of the Company, Alcon Inc., or their
subsidiaries or affiliates.

16. In the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Company or Alcon
Inc. has breached this Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Company, Alcon
Inc., or their subsidiaries or affiliates to the Fraud Section and the Office or to the Court, including
the attached Statement of Facts, and any testimony given by the Company, Alcon Inc., or their
subsidiaries or affiliates before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative hearings,
whether prior or subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads derived from such statements or
testimony, shall be admissible in evidence in any and all criminal proceedings brought by the Fraud
Section and the Office against the Company, Alcon Inc., or their subsidiaries or affiliates; and (b)
the Company, Alcon Inc., or their subsidiaries or affiliates shall not assert any claim under the
United States Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 410 of the
Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that any such statements or testimony made
by or on behalf of the Company, Alcon Inc., or their subsidiaries or affiliates prior or subsequent
to this Agreement, or any leads derived therefrom, should be suppressed or are otherwise
inadmissible. The decision whether conduct or statements of any current director, officer, or
employee, or any person acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, the Company, Alcon Inc., or
their subsidiaries or affiliates will be imputed to the Company or Alcon Inc. for the purpose of
determining whether the Company or Alcon Inc. has violated any provision of this Agreement

Shall be in the sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the Office.

15
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 16 of 70 PagelD: 34

17. The Company and Alcon Inc. acknowledge that the Fraud Section and the Office
have made no representations, assurances, or promises concerning what sentence may be imposed
by the Court if the Company or Alcon Inc. breaches this Agreement and this matter proceeds to
judgment. The Company and Alcon Inc. further acknowledge that any such sentence is solely
within the discretion of the Court and that nothing in this Agreement binds or restricts the Court
in the exercise of such discretion.

18. On the date that the period of deferred prosecution specified in this Agreement
expires, the Company, by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, will certify to the Fraud Section and the Office that the Company has met
its disclosure obligations pursuant to Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Agreement. Each certification
will be deemed a material statement and representation by the Company to the executive branch
of the United States for purposes of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1001 and 1519, and it
will be deemed to have been made in the judicial district in which this Agreement is filed.

Sale, Merger, or Other Change in Corporate Form of the Company

19. Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular
transaction, the Company and Alcon Inc. agree that in the event that, during the Term, the
Company or Alcon Inc. undertake any change in corporate form, including if it sells, merges, or
transfers business operations that are material to the Company’s or Alcon Inc.’s consolidated
operations, or to the operations of any subsidiaries or affiliates involved in the conduct described
in the attached Statement of Facts, as they exist as of the date of this Agreement, whether such
change is structured as a sale, asset sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form, it

shall include in any contract for sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form a

16
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 17 of 70 PagelD: 35

provision binding the purchaser, or any successor in interest thereto, to the obligations described
in this Agreement. The purchaser or successor in interest must also agree in writing that the Fraud
Section’s and the Office’s ability to declare a breach under this Agreement is applicable in full
force to that entity. The Company and Alcon Inc. agree that the failure to include these provisions
in the transaction will make any such transaction null and void. The Company and Alcon Inc.
shall provide notice to the Fraud Section and the Office at least thirty days prior to undertaking
any such sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form. The Fraud Section and the
Office shall notify the Company and Alcon Inc. prior to such transaction (or series of transactions)
if they determine that the transaction(s) will have the effect of circumventing or frustrating the
enforcement purposes of this Agreement. If, at any time during the Term, the Company or Alcon
Inc. engages in a transaction(s) that has the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement
purposes of this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office may deem it a breach of this
Agreement pursuant to Paragraphs 14 to 18 of this Agreement. Nothing herein shall restrict the
Company or Alcon Inc. from indemnifying (or otherwise holding harmless) the purchaser or
successor in interest for penalties or other costs arising from any conduct that may have occurred
prior to the date of the transaction, so long as such indemnification does not have the effect of
circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as determined by the
Fraud Section and the Office.

Public Statements by the Company and Alcon Inc.

20. The Company and Alcon Inc. expressly agree that they shall not, through present
or future attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents or any other person authorized to speak

for the Company or Alcon Inc., make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise, contradicting

17
~ a ae oP PN PMLA ~ — oe oy SO’ IRE I ax ge oy
Mace 2 oC er AAS SOQL5 PRAY Paciment 2 Fler ORFPSRS/eAOQ Bane TS aft OB
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe LAP Pa my aa APRS Soe Ae PU CAMA ALG Ab

the acceptance of responsibility by the Company or Alcon Inc. set forth above or the facts
described in the attached Statement of Facts. Any such contradictory statement shall, subject to
cure rights of the Company and Alcon Inc. described below, constitute a breach of this Agreement,
and the Company and/or Alcon Inc. thereafter shall be subject to prosecution as set forth in
Paragraphs 14 to 16 of this Agreement. The decision whether any public statement by any such
person contradicting a fact contained in the attached Statement of Facts will be imputed to the
Company and/or Alcon Inc. for the purpose of determining whether it has breached this Agreement
shall be at the sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the Office. If the Fraud Section and the
Office determine that a public statement by any such person contradicts in whole or in part a
statement contained in the attached Statement of Facts, the Fraud Section and the Office shall so
notify the Company and Alcon Inc., and the Company and Alcon Inc. may avoid a breach of this
Agreement by publicly repudiating such statement(s) within five business days after notification.
The Company and Alcon Inc. shall be permitted to raise defenses and to assert affirmative claims
in other proceedings relating to the matters set forth in the attached Statement of Facts provided
that such defenses and claims do not contradict, in whole or in part, a statement contained in the
attached Statement of Facts. This Paragraph does not apply to any statement made by any present
or former officer, director, employee, or agent of the Company or Alcon Inc. in the course of any
criminal, regulatory, or civil case initiated against such individual, unless such individual is
speaking on behalf of the Company and/or Alcon Inc.

21. The Company and Alcon Inc. agree that if they or any of their direct or indirect
subsidiaries or affiliates issue a press release or hold any press conference in connection with this

Agreement, the Company and Alcon Inc. shall first consult with the Fraud Section and the Office

18
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 19 of 70 PagelD: 37

to determine: (a) whether the text of the release or proposed statements at the press conference are
true and accurate with respect to matters between the Fraud Section, the Office, the Company, and
Alcon Inc.; and (b) whether the Fraud Section and the Office have any objection to the release or
statement.

22. The Fraud Section and the Office agree, if requested to do so, to bring to the
attention of law enforcement and regulatory authorities the facts and circumstances relating to the
nature of the conduct underlying this Agreement, including the nature and quality of the
Company’s and Alcon Inc.’s cooperation and remediation. By agreeing to provide this information
to such authorities, the Fraud Section and the Office are not agreeing to advocate on behalf of the
Company, Alcon Inc., or their subsidiaries or affiliates, but rather are agreeing to provide facts to
be evaluated independently by such authorities. Nothing in this Agreement restricts in any way
the ability of the Fraud Section and the Office, any other federal department or agency, or any state
or local government, from proceeding criminally, civilly, or administratively, against any current
or former directors, officers, employees, or agents of the Company, Alcon Inc., its subsidiaries or
affiliates, or against any other entities or individuals. The parties to this Agreement intend that the
Agreement does not confer or provide any benefits, privileges, immunities, or rights to any other
individual or entity other than the parties hereto.

Limitations on Binding Effect of the Agreement

23. This Agreement is binding on the Company, Alcon Inc., the Fraud Section, and
the Office, but specifically does not bind any other component of the Department of Justice, other
federal agencies, or any state, local, or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies, or any

other authorities, although the Fraud Section and the Office will bring the cooperation of the

19
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 20 of 70 PagelD: 38

Company and Alcon Inc. and their compliance with their other obligations under this Agreement
to the attention of such agencies and authorities if requested to do so by the Company or Alcon
Inc.
Notice

24. Any notice to the Fraud Section and the Office under this Agreement shall be given
by personal delivery, overnight delivery by a recognized delivery service, or registered or certified
mail, addressed to Chief, FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S. Department of
Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, NW, 11th Floor, Washington, D.C. 20530, and Chief, Health
Care Fraud Unit, United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey, 970 Broad Street,
7th Floor, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Any notice to the Company and Alcon Inc. under this
Agreement shall be given by personal delivery, overnight delivery by a recognized delivery
service, or registered or certified mail, addressed to R. Christopher Cook, Alcon Inc.’s Global
Head of Litigation and Government Investigations, 6201 South Freeway, Fort Worth, Texas
76134-2099, and Patrick F. Stokes, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, 1050 Connecticut Avenue,
NW, Washington, D.C. 20036, or by electronic mail to those individuals or to other counsel or
individuals identified to the Fraud Section and the Office by the Company and/or Alcon Inc.
Notice shall be effective upon actual receipt by the Fraud Section and the Office or the Company
and Alcon Inc.

Complete Agreement

25. This Agreement, including its attachments, sets forth all the terms of the agreement

between the Company, Alcon Inc., the Fraud Section, and the Office. No amendments,

modifications or additions to this Agreement shall be valid unless they are in writing and signed

20
Becace:

by the Fraud Section and the Office, the attorneys for the Company and Alcon Inc., and a duly

authorized representative of the Company and Alcon Inc.

21
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 22 of 70 PagelD: 40

AGREED:
FOR ALCON PTE LTD:

me tlyle sm (A Ag)_.

R. Christopher Cook

Global Head of Litigation and
Government Investigations
Alcon Inc.

Date: 6/24/20 By: -
Patrick F. Stokes
F. Joseph Warin
John D. W. Partridge
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
Counsel for Alcon Pte Ltd

FOR ALCON INC.:

Date: uhykzo By: 204A Se

R. Christopher Cook

Global Head of Litigation and
Government Investigations
Alcon Inc.

Date, ©2420 By:
Patrick F. Stokes
F. Joseph Warin
John D. W. Partridge
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
Counsel for Alcon Inc.
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW  Drocurnen

f2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 25 of 70 Pageil: 41

FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE:

Date: OW [es | Lee

Date: & PE PO20

ROBERT A. ZINK.

Chief, Fraud Section

Criminal Division

United States Department of Justice

By¢ 5
“Pella Sentilles *
Trial Attorney

CRAIG CARPENITO _
United States Attorney

District Le Jersey LA
By: Lon (rt A

Bernard J; Ao Vi
Senior Trial Counsel
Joshua L, Haber

Assistant United States Attorney

23

 
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 24 of 70 PagelD: 42

COMPANY OFFICER’S CERTIFICATE

I have read this Agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with outside counsel
for Alcon Pte Ltd (the “Company”). I understand the terms of this Agreement and voluntarily
agree, on behalf of the Company, to each of its terms. Before signing this Agreement, I consulted
outside counsel for the Company. Counsel fully advised me of the rights of the Company, of
possible defenses, of the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the consequences
of entering into this Agreement.

I have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors of the
Company. I have advised and caused outside counsel for the Company to advise the Board of
Directors fully of the rights of the Company, of possible defenses, of the provisions of the U.S.
Sentencing Guidelines, and of the consequences of entering into the Agreement.

No promises or inducements have been made other than those contained in this Agreement.
Furthermore, no one has threatened or forced me, or to my knowledge any person authorizing this
Agreement on behalf of the Company, in any way to enter into this Agreement. I am also satisfied
with outside counsel’s representation in this matter. I certify that | am the Global Head of
Litigation and Government Investigations for Alcon Inc. and that I have been duly authorized by

the Company to execute this Agreement on behalf of the Company.

  

Alcon Inc.
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 25 of 70 PagelD: 43

CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL FOR ALCON PTE LTD

Iam counsel for Alcon Pte Ltd (the “Company”) in the matter covered by this Agreement.
In connection with such representation, I have examined relevant Company documents and have
discussed the terms of this Agreement with the Company’s Board of Directors. Based on my
review of the foregoing materials and discussions, I am of the opinion that the representative of
the Company has been duly authorized to enter into this Agreement on behalf of the Company and
that this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed, and delivered on behalf of the
Company and is a valid and binding obligation of the Company. Further, I have carefully reviewed
the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors and the Head of Legal and Compliance,
APAC. I have fully advised them of the rights of the Company, of possible defenses, of the
provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the consequences of entering into this
Agreement. To my knowledge, the decision of the Company to enter into this Agreement, based
on the authorization of the Board of Directors, is an informed and voluntary one.

Date: 6/24/20

 

By: OWN
Patrick F. Stokes
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP

25
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 26 of 70 PagelD: 44

ALCON INC. OFFICER’S CERTIFICATE
I have read this Agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with outside counsel
for Alcon Inc. | understand the terms of this Agreement and voluntarily agree, on behalf of Alcon
Inc., to each of its terms. Before signing this Agreement, I consulted outside counsel for Alcon
Inc. Counsel fully advised me of the rights of Alcon Inc., of possible defenses, of the provisions
of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the consequences of entering into this Agreement.

I have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement with the Board of Directors of Alcon
Inc. I have advised and caused outside counsel for Alcon Inc. to advise the Board of Directors
fully of the rights of Alcon Inc., of possible defenses, of the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing
Guidelines, and of the consequences of entering into the Agreement.

No promises or inducements have been made other than those contained in this Agreement.
Furthermore, no one has threatened or forced me, or to my knowledge any person authorizing this
Agreement on behalf of Alcon Inc., in any way to enter into this Agreement. I am also satisfied
with outside counsel’s representation in this matter. | certify that | am the Global Head of
Litigation and Government Investigations for Alcon Inc. and that | have been duly authorized by
Alcon Inc. to execute this Agreement on behalf of Alcon Inc.

Date: & lw [te

By:
R. Christopher Cook
Alcon Inc.
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 27 of 70 PagelD: 45

CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL FOR ALCON INC.

Iam counsel for Alcon Inc. in the matter covered by this Agreement. In connection with
such representation, I have examined relevant Alcon Inc. documents and have discussed the terms
of this Agreement with Alcon Inc.’s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary, and Alcon Inc.’s Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations. Based on
ny review of the foregoing materials and discussions, and on my discussions with the Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and the Global Head of Litigation and
Goverment Investigations, I am of the opinion that the representative of Alcon Inc. has been duly
authorized to enter into this Agreement on behalf of Alcon Inc. and that this Agreement has been
duly and validly authorized, executed, and delivered on behalf of Alcon Inc. and is a valid and
binding obligation of Alcon Inc. Further, I have carefully reviewed the terms of this Agreement
with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and the Global Head of
Litigation and Government Investigations of Alcon Inc. I have fully advised them of the rights of
Alcon Inc., of possible defenses, of the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and of the
consequences of entering into this Agreement. To my knowledge, and based on my discussions
with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and the Global Head of
Litigation and Government Investigations, the decision of Alcon Inc. to enter into this Agreement,
based on the authorization of the Board of Directors, is an informed and voluntary one.

Date: _ 6/24/20

 

Patrick F. Stokes
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP

27
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 28 of 70 PagelD: 46

ATTACHMENT A

STATEMENT OF FACTS

The following Statement of Facts is incorporated as part of the Deferred Prosecution
Agreement (the “Agreement”) between the United States Department of Justice, Criminal
Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”), the United States Attorney’s Office for the District
of New Jersey (the “Office’’), and Alcon Pte Ltd (the “Company”). The Company hereby agrees
and stipulates that the following facts and conclusions of law are true and accurate. The Company
admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible for the acts of its officers, directors,
employees, and agents as set forth below. Should the Fraud Section and the Office pursue the
prosecution that is deferred by this Agreement, the Company agrees that it will neither contest the
admissibility of, nor contradict, this Statement of Facts in any such proceeding. The following
facts took place during the relevant time period and establish beyond a reasonable doubt the
charges set forth in the Information attached to this Agreement:

Relevant Entities

1. Alcon, Inc. was a multinational eye care company with headquarters in Fort Worth,
Texas, and incorporated in Hiinenberg, Switzerland. In or about April 2011, Alcon, Inc. merged
with Novartis AG, a global pharmaceutical company based in Basel, Switzerland, after which
Alcon, Inc. (hereinafter, the “Alcon Division”) became a wholly owned subsidiary of Novartis
AG. Novartis AG’s American Depository Shares were listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol “NVS.” Novartis AG was an issuer of publicly traded securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and was required to file

periodic reports with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) under

A-1
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 29 of 70 PagelD: 47

Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act. Thus, Novartis AG was an “issuer” within the meaning
of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1(a) and 78m(b). The Alcon
Division’s books, records, and accounts were included in the consolidated financial statements of
Novartis AG filed with the SEC.

2. In or about April 2019, Novartis AG spun off the Alcon Division, including Alcon
Pte Ltd, and the newly established independent parent company was named Alcon Inc. Alcon Inc.
is the lawful successor-in-interest to Alcon, Inc. (1.e., the Alcon Division).

3. In or about and between 2011 and 2014 (the “relevant time period”), Alcon Pte Ltd
was an affiliate of the Alcon Division with headquarters in Singapore. Among other functions,
Alcon Pte Ltd provided financial services and managerial oversight for the Alcon Division’s
operations in Asia, including for two representative offices in Vietnam. Alcon Pte Ltd’s books,
records, and accounts were included in the consolidated financial statements that Novartis AG
filed with the SEC.

4. “Distributor Company,” an entity whose identity is known to the Fraud Section, the
Office, and the Company, was a limited liability company incorporated in Vietnam. Among other
business, Distributor Company marketed and sold Alcon Division products to health care providers
(“HCPs”) and hospitals in Vietnam.

Relevant Individuals

5. “Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud

Section, the Office, and the Company, was a high level executive of the Company and, at various

times, was located in the United States or Singapore. For fiscal year 2014, Alcon Pte Ltd Executive

A-2
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 30 of 70 PagelD: 48

1 signed two Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certifications that were false. These false sub-certifications were
maintained as part of Novartis AG’s books, records, and accounts.

6. “Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section, the Office, and the Company, was an employee of the Company and, at various times,
was located in the United States or Singapore.

7. “Distributor Company Executive 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the
Fraud Section, the Office, and the Company, was a high level executive of Distributor Company
during the relevant time period.

8. “Distributor Company Executive 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the
Fraud Section, the Office, and the Company, was a high level accounting executive of Distributor
Company during the relevant time period.

Operations in Vietnam

9, Vietnam owned and operated state-owned and state-controlled hospitals and
clinics, and these hospitals and clinics performed a government function. Employees of state-
owned and state-controlled hospitals and clinics in Vietnam (“Vietnam State HCPs”) were
“foreign officials” within the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

10. The Alcon Division conducted business operations in Vietnam through two
representative offices located in Hanoi, Vietnam, and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam (“Alcon
Vietnam Representative Offices”). The Company provided management and financial reporting
oversight for the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices.

11. The Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices did not directly conduct sales to end-

customers in Vietnam, including to state-owned and state-controlled hospitals and clinics in

A-3
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 31 of 70 PagelD: 49

Vietnam. Rather, sales to end-customers in Vietnam were conducted through Distributor
Company.

12. Among other lines of the Alcon Division’s eye care business, the Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices, through Distributor Company, sold surgical equipment and devices such
as lasers and intraocular lenses (“IOLs”) to end-customers in Vietnam, including to state-owned
and state-controlled hospitals and clinics in Vietnam. [OLs are artificial replacement lenses that
are implanted in the eye as part of a treatment for a variety of ailments such as cataracts.

Overview of the Conspiracy

13. Beginning in or about 2007, the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices and
Distributor Company engaged in a scheme to bribe Vietnam State HCPs in order to increase sales
of IOLs. Participants in the scheme referred to it as the “consultancy program.”

14. Under the guise of the consultancy program, Distributor Company made corrupt
payments to HCPs, including Vietnam State HCPs, in connection with sales of Alcon Division
IOLs by Distributor Company. Distributor Company made the payments directly to HCPs,
including to Vietnam State HCPs, and the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices, with the
approval of employees of the Company, reimbursed Distributor Company for up to 50 percent of
the costs associated with the improper payments to HCPs.

15. The scheme continued after the Alcon Division merged with Novartis AG in April
2011. Thereafter, between in or about April 2011 and June 2014, the Company, through its
executives, employees, and agents, knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed with others to
cause Novartis AG to maintain false accounting records, by, among other things, falsely recording

partial reimbursements to Distributor Company for improper payments made to Vietnam State

A-4
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 32 of 70 PagelD: 50

HCPs in the Company’s internal financial records, which were consolidated into Novartis AG’s
financial records, and by transmitting false Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certification letters to Novartis
AG. These false sub-certification letters were subsequently maintained in the books, records, and
accounts of Novartis AG.

16. In total, from 2011 through 2014, as a result of the improper payments to Vietnam
State HCPs, the Company realized approximately $8,500,000 in profits.

Details of the Scheme

17. In or around April 2007, prior to Novartis AG’s merger with the Alcon Division,
the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices, with the knowledge and involvement of Alcon Pte Ltd
Executive 1, an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices executive, and others, began providing
money to Distributor Company, disguised as consultancy payments and in the form of credit notes,
that Distributor Company used to make corrupt payments to HCPs, including Vietnam State HCPs.

18. In furtherance of the scheme, on or about April 3, 2007, Distributor Company
Executive 2 sent an email to Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1, an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices
executive, and others. In the email, Distributor Company Executive 2 referenced a meeting from
March 2007 in which details of the corrupt consultancy program were discussed. The email
attached a list of approximately 35 HCPs, including Vietnam State HCPs, who were designated to
receive payments in exchange for purchasing Alcon Division IOLs. The email—and other
contemporaneous communications—also outlined a proposal for the consultancy program as
follows:

a. The consultancy program would cover two types of Alcon Division IOLs:

IQ and Restore;
o~ aA As oP me OPN PL? ~ ae pty CoN Eee PN
Maea 2 Ofer AOSeGlamMyar Pynacrpmant 2 Ederi AAs/OSieg
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe EAA PER Gn a Pou Aa ASA Pa

oe,
4
Neg

b. HCPs would be paid 200,000 VND (equivalent to then approximately
$12.50 USD) per IQ IOL purchased and 400,000 VND (equivalent to then approximately $25.00
USD) per Restore IOL purchased;

c. Distributor Company would make the payments to HCPs through bank

transfers; and

d. Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices would reimburse Distributor

Company for up to 50 percent of the costs associated with the consultancy program.

19. The consultancy program targeted doctors and nurses, many of whom were
Vietnam State HCPs. As explained in an attachment to an email from an Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices executive dated July 21, 2008, the “[t]arget customer[s]” for the scheme

99 66

consisted of the following: “[d]Joctor[s] in the consulta[tion] room,” “[d]octor[s] in the exam

room,” “[n]Jurse[s] in the consulta[tion] room,” and the “[c]hief]s] of [Operating Rooms] in” two
specific eye hospitals in Vietnam.

20. Furthermore, the purpose of the consultancy program, as explained in an email
dated July 26, 2008 from a Distributor Company employee to an Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices executive, among others, was to “encourage[] doctors to introduce and use Alcon’s IOLs
and... speed up IOLs sales.”

21. Atthe consultancy program’s peak, in or around 2011, Distributor Company made
corrupt payments to approximately 200 HCPs, a number of whom were Vietnam State HCPs, and
the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices disguised reimbursement for those payments as

legitimate payments made pursuant to the consultancy program. These payments aggregated over

time. For example, during 2010, a proposed payment schedule showed one Vietnam State HCP

A-6
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 34 of 70 PagelD: 52

was scheduled to receive more than 360,000,000 VND (equivalent to then approximately $18,450
USD) pursuant to the consultancy program, while another Vietnam State HCP was scheduled to
receive more than 450,000,000 VND (equivalent to then approximately $23,352 USD).

22. Between in or about 2007 and June 2014, the Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices, with the approval of employees of the Company and others, partially reimbursed
Distributor Company periodically for improper payments that Distributor Company made to
HCPs, including to Vietnam State HCPs (for instance, reimbursing approximately $180,000 USD
in 2010 and up to approximately $100,000 USD in 2013 and 2014).

The False Records

23. Prior to 2012, the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices partially reimbursed
Distributor Company for improper payments made through the consultancy program by causing
another Alcon entity to issue credits to Distributor Company that offset its outstanding debt
balances. These credits were referred to as “credit notes.”

24. The typical system for issuing the credit notes included the following steps: (a)
Distributor Company employees would regularly send emails to an Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices employee requesting a credit note for a certain amount related to the consultancy program;
(b) the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices employee reviewed and forwarded the requests to
regional management, including Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 2; and (c) once approved by regional
management, credit notes were issued to Distributor Company with the stated reason for the credit
note as “consultancy fees.”

25. After 2011, Distributor Company, with the knowledge of certain employees of the

Company, continued to make improper payments to HCPs, including to Vietnam State HCPs, in

A-7
o~ aA As oP me OPN PL? ~ ae pty CoN Eee PN
Maea 2 Ofer AOSeGlamMyar Pynacrpmant 2 Ederi AAs/OSieg
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe EAA PER Gn a Pou Aa ASA Pa

oe,
4
Neg

order to increase sales of Alcon Division IOLs, and the Company continued to reimburse
Distributor Company indirectly for a portion of those payments.

26. Between in or around August 2011 and 2012, the Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices, with the approval of employees of the Company and others, changed the methodology for
reimbursing Distributor Company for a portion of the improper payments made through the
consultancy program. Specifically, rather than rermburse Distributor Company by issuing credit
notes for “consultancy fees,” the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices partially reimbursed
Distributor Company for the payments through other, inflated reimbursable costs, such as
marketing, human resources, or margin reconciliation costs.

27. In furtherance of the scheme, in an email dated August 15, 2011, an Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices executive wrote to Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 2 and others about continued
financial support for the consultancy program and suggested using Distributor Company’s margin
in order to cover the consultancy program costs. The email noted that “[Distributor Company
Executive 1] agreed to remain their activities to secure business as much as possible but
[Distributor Company Executive 1] need[s] our support more in term[s] of finance.” In the email,
an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices executive noted further, “I also discuss[ed] with
[Distributor Company Executive 1] our scenario of increasing the margin to cover USD 120K ..
.With this support, [Distributor Company] will propose the marketing plan for next year for
Alcon|’s] review and agree[ment] before implementation.”

28. Employees of the Company and the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices also
discussed using a marketing budget to cover the costs of reimbursing Distributor Company in

connection with the improper payments made under the consultancy program. For example, on

A-8
~ a AS NX Pe PARRA? ~ - oy CN RY ES
Mace 2 OP. Ah eO.S VAY Pyarccoment 2 Fuller] O6/OS5/26
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe LAP Pa my aa APRS Soe Ae

;
2

November 23, 2011, a Distributor Company employee sent an email to two Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices executives, among others, summarizing a November 9, 2011 meeting,
during which personnel from Distributor Company and from the Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices discussed various ways that the consultancy program would operate in 2012. Specifically,
the Distributor Company employee wrote: “Consultant Program in 2012: Alcon will consider and
share the finance difficulties of [Distributor Company] by:

e Increasing the ratio[] share of Loss of exchange rate...

e [Playing sample for [Distributor Company |

e [Using some money from marketing budget to support [Distributor

Company].”

29. Furthermore, during a phone call in or around late summer 2014, Distributor
Company Executive | told an Alcon Pte Ltd employee that Distributor Company had used up all
of its funds to pay for Alcon Division’s surgical equipment and could no longer pay the “usual
considerations” to Vietnamese HCPs to ensure they purchased Alcon Division products.

30. ‘In or around May or June 2014, Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1 told an Alcon Pte Ltd
employee, who was responsible for reviewing the financials for the Alcon Division’s business in
Vietnam, that no one needed to know about Distributor Company’s 2014 profit and loss analysis
(“Distributor Company’s P&L Analysis’).

31. Shortly thereafter, on or about June 11, 2014, an Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices executive sent an Alcon Pte Ltd employee a copy of Distributor Company’s P&L Analysis,
which included a number of line 1tems that concealed improper payments to HCPs, including to

Vietnam State HCPs, in FY 2013 and FY 2014, including: purported “[clonsultant cost” of

approximately $111,157 USD for FY 2013, purported “[c]Jonsultant cost” of approximately

A-9
oy = a F PA ARG AP ~ ee = poets Soy Pe Ee ee pee
Mace 2 ole ASSO 5 PRAl Pacument 2 Fuller! OBfeSs/ek
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe LAP Pa my Ra APRS Cael

$97,000 USD for FY 2014, purported “HR” cost of approximately $800,000 USD for FY 2013,
purported “HR” cost of approximately $740,000 USD for FY 2014, purported “[a]dministration
cost” of approximately $514,000 USD for FY 2013, and purported “[a]dministration cost” of
approximately $572,000 USD for FY 2014.

32. Together, these entries in Distributor Company’s P&L Analysis correlated to
ongoing efforts by the Company to conceal the reimbursement of Distributor Company for
improper payments made to Vietnam State HCPs and others.

33. The Company, through its executives, employees, and agents, knowingly and
willfully conspired and agreed with others to falsely record in the Company’s internal financial
records partial rermbursement of the improper payments that Distributor Company made to HCPs,
including to Vietnam State HCPs, pursuant to the consultancy program. By recording
reimbursements for these payments as legitimate expenses, such as consulting expenses, marketing
expenses, human resource expenses, administration costs, and/or margin reconciliation costs, the
Company, through its executives, employees, and agents, concealed the true nature of these
payments and caused Novartis AG to maintain false financial records.

34. Furthermore, as part of the conspiracy, Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1, who participated
in the scheme and knew of the corrupt payments to Vietnam State HCPs, signed and transmitted
two false Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certification letters dated July 4, 2014, and October 7, 2014, to the
Alcon Division’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. These false sub-
certification letters were subsequently maintained in the books, records, and accounts of Novartis

AG.

A-10
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 38 of 70 PagelD: 56

ATTACHMENT B
CERTIFICATE OF CORPORATE RESOLUTIONS FOR ALCON PTE LTD

WHEREAS, Alcon Pte Ltd (the “Company”) has been engaged in discussions with the
United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”) and
the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (the “Office”) regarding issues
arising in relation to a conspiracy to falsify books, records, and accounts to conceal improper
payments to health care providers (“HCPs”’) employed by public institutions in Vietnam; and

WHEREAS, in order to resolve such discussions, it is proposed that the Company enter
into a deferred prosecution agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office (the “Agreement’”);
and

WHEREAS, the Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations for Alcon Inc.,
R. Christopher Cook, together with outside counsel for the Company, has advised the Board of
Directors of the Company of its rights, possible defenses, the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing
Guidelines, and the consequences of entering into such the Agreement with the Fraud Section and
the Office;

Therefore, the Board of Directors has RESOLVED that:

1. The Company: (a) acknowledges the filing of the Information charging the
Company with one count of conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States, in violation
of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is, to violate the books and records provision of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), as amended, Title 15, United States Code,
Sections 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a); (b) waives indictment on such charges and enters

into the Agreement with the Fraud Section and the Office; and (c) agrees to accept a monetary

B-1
oy = a F PA ARG AP e = poets SN Pe Eee Pe my ot core J pe ay
Pace 2 OoPLer AR SGP Pyacrmeant 2 Filer MAPERIOO Bane RO ot 7O Panels AY?
Ne TAO TA TA ed oe LAP Pa my aa APRS Soe Ae PU CAMA wR AE FD ehh ad

penalty against the Company with respect to the conduct described in the Information totaling
$8,925,000, and to pay such penalty to the United States Treasury within ten business days of the
execution of the Agreement;

2. The Company accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but
not limited to: (a) a knowing waiver of its rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth Amendment
to the United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161, and Federal Rule of
Criminal Procedure 48(b); (b) a knowing waiver for purposes of this Agreement and any charges
by the United States arising out of the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts of any
objection with respect to venue and consents to the filing of the Information, as provided under
the terms of this Agreement, in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey; and
(c) a knowing waiver of any defenses based on the statute of limitations for any prosecution
relating to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts, or relating to conduct known
to the Fraud Section and the Office prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed, that is
not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement;

3. The Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations for Alcon Inc., R.
Christopher Cook, is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed, on behalf of the Company, to
execute this Agreement substantially in such form as reviewed by this Board of Directors at this
meeting with such changes as the Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations for
Alcon Inc. may approve;

4. The Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations for Alcon Inc., R.
Christopher Cook, is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to take any and all actions as

may be necessary or appropriate, and to approve the forms, terms, or provisions of any agreement

B-2
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 40 of 70 PagelD: 58

or other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out and effectuate the purpose and
intent of the foregoing resolutions; and

5. All of the actions of the Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations
for Alcon Inc., R. Christopher Cook, which would have been authorized by the foregoing
resolutions except that such actions were taken prior to the adoption of such resolutions, are hereby

severally ratified, confirmed, approved, and adopted as actions on behalf of the Company.

A gh Sst
Date: 23 June 2020 Se

By:

 

Sunil Vasanth
Director of the Board of Directors
Alcon Pte Ltd

B-3
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 41 of 70 PagelD: 59

CERTIFICATE OF CORPORATE RESOLUTIONS FOR ALCON INC.

WHEREAS, Alcon Inc. has been engaged in discussions with the United States
Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the “Fraud Section”) and the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey (the “Office”) regarding issues arising in
relation to a conspiracy to falsify books, records, and accounts to conceal improper payments to
health care providers (“HCPs”) employed by public institutions in Vietnam; and

WHEREAS, in order to resolve such discussions, it is proposed that Alcon Inc. (on behalf
of itself and its subsidiaries and affiliates) agree to certain terms and obligations of the deferred
prosecution agreement among Alcon Pte Ltd, the Fraud Section, and the Office (the “Agreement”);
and

WHEREAS, Alcon Inc.’s Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations, R.
Christopher Cook, along with Alcon Inc.’s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary and outside counsel for Alcon Inc., has advised the Board of Directors of Alcon Inc. of
its rights, possible defenses, the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, and the
consequences of agreeing to such terms and obligations of the Agreement among Alcon Pte Ltd,
the Fraud Section, and the Office;

Therefore, the Board of Directors has RESOLVED that:

1. Alcon Inc. (a) acknowledges the filing of the Information against its indirect
subsidiary, Alcon Pte Ltd, charging Alcon Pte Ltd with one count of conspiracy to commit an
offense against the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, that is,
to violate the books and records provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (““FCPA”),

as amended, Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a); (b)

B-4
pro, = oy SO PE Re NP ~ oe ee = poet Low Pe Ee ee Fe oy ax oe at cose 2 cae
Mace 2:3 e re GOR SOG SAR Pareument 2 Filler OAfES/eO Pane AP at 7 Panel at
Ke TRE eh A OS Oo LS LAP Pa my aa APRS Soe Ae PU CARAS Sal Lab FAP oD ether AS

undertakes certain obligations under the Agreement among Alcon Pte Ltd, the Fraud Section, and
the Office; and (c) agrees to accept a monetary penalty against Alcon Pte Ltd totaling $8,925,000,
and to pay such penalty to the United States Treasury with respect to the conduct described in the
Information if Alcon Pte Ltd does not pay such monetary penalty within the time period specified
in the Agreement;

2. Alcon Inc. accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, but not
limited to: (a) a knowing waiver of Alcon Pte Ltd’s right to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth
Amendment to the United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161, and
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b); (b) a knowing waiver for purposes of this Agreement
and any charges by the United States arising out of the conduct described in the attached Statement
of Facts of any objection with respect to venue and consents to the filing of the Information against
Alcon Pte Ltd, as provided under the terms of this Agreement, in the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey; and (c) a knowing waiver of any defenses based on the statute of
limitations for any prosecution relating to the conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts,
or relating to conduct known to the Fraud Section and the Office prior to the date on which this
Agreement was signed, that is not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations on the date
of the signing of this Agreement;

3. The Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations of Alcon Inc., R.
Christopher Cook, is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed, on behalf of Alcon Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, to agree to certain terms and obligations of the Agreement substantially
in such form as reviewed by this Board of Directors at this meeting with such changes as the Global

Head of Litigation and Government Investigations of Alcon Inc., may approve;

B-5
oS wey TS BWR ae AMAL OS Orsiae PN em pag me ge tN Pek Ld gy ek heer eee Mase AM At UF Pe ew aN got
Case 220-cr-O0539-SDW Document 2 Filed Oo/25/40 Page 43 of 7O PagelD: ol
4. The Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations of Alcon Inc., R.

Christopher Cook, is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to take any and all actions as
may be necessary or appropriate, and to approve the forms, terms or provisions of any agreement
or other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out and effectuate the purpose and
intent of the foregoing resolutions; and

5. All of the actions of the Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations
of Alcon Inc., R. Christopher Cook, which would have been authorized by the foregoing
resolutions except that such actions were taken prior to the adoption of such resolutions, are hereby
severally ratified, confirmed, approved, and adopted as actions on behalf of Alcon Inc. and its

subsidiaries and affiliates.

Date: CH A j20 .

Chairman of the Board of Directors
Alcon Inc.

 

 

B-6
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 44 of 70 PagelD: 62

ATTACHMENT C
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

In order to address any deficiencies in its internal controls, compliance code, policies, and
procedures regarding compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (““FCPA”), 15 U.S.C. §§
78dd-1, et seg., and other applicable anti-corruption laws, Alcon Inc., on behalf of itself and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, agrees to continue to conduct, in a manner consistent with all of its
obligations under this Agreement, appropriate reviews of its existing internal controls, policies,
and procedures.

Where necessary and appropriate, Alcon Inc. agrees to adopt new, or to modify its existing
compliance programs, including internal controls, compliance policies, and procedures in order to
ensure that it maintains: (a) an effective system of internal accounting controls designed to ensure
the making and keeping of fair and accurate books, records, and accounts; and (b) a rigorous anti-
corruption compliance program that incorporates relevant internal accounting controls, as well as
policies and procedures designed to effectively detect and deter violations of the FCPA and other
applicable anti-corruption laws. At a minimum, this should include, but not be limited to, the
following elements to the extent they are not already part of Alcon Inc.’s existing internal controls,
compliance code, policies, and procedures:

High-Level Commitment

1. Alcon Inc. will ensure that its directors and senior management provide strong,

explicit, and visible support and commitment to its corporate policy against violations of the anti-

corruption laws and its compliance codes.

C-]
Policies and Procedures
2. Alcon Inc. will develop and promulgate a clearly articulated and visible corporate

policy against violations of the FCPA and other applicable foreign law counterparts (collectively,
the “anti-corruption laws”), which policy shall be memorialized in a written compliance code or
codes.

3. Alcon Inc. will develop and promulgate compliance policies and procedures
designed to reduce the prospect of violations of the anti-corruption laws and Alcon Inc.’s
compliance code, and Alcon Inc. will take appropriate measures to encourage and support the
observance of ethics and compliance policies and procedures against violation of the anti-
corruption laws by personnel at all levels of Alcon Inc. These anti-corruption policies and
procedures shall apply to all directors, officers, and employees and, where necessary and
appropriate, outside parties acting on behalf of Alcon Inc. in a foreign jurisdiction, including, but
not limited to, agents and intermediaries, consultants, representatives, distributors, teaming
partners, contractors and suppliers, consortia, and joint venture partners (collectively, “agents and
business partners”). Alcon Inc. shall notify all employees that compliance with the policies and

procedures is the duty of individuals at all levels of Alcon Inc. Such policies and procedures shall

address:
a. gifts;
b. hospitality, entertainment, and expenses;
C. customer travel;
d. political contributions;
e. charitable donations and sponsorships;

C-2
 

f. facilitation payments; and
g. solicitation and extortion.
4. Alcon Inc. will ensure that it has a system of financial and accounting procedures,

including a system of internal controls, reasonably designed to ensure the maintenance of fair and
accurate books, records, and accounts. This system shall be designed to provide reasonable
assurances that:

a. transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or
specific authorization;

b. transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any other criteria
applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets;

C. access to assets 1s permitted only in accordance with management’s general
or specific authorization; and

d. the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets
at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.

Periodic Risk-Based Review
5. Alcon Inc. will develop these compliance policies and procedures on the basis of
a periodic risk assessment addressing the individual circumstances of Alcon Inc., in particular the
foreign bribery risks facing Alcon Inc., including, but not limited to, its geographical organization,
interactions with various types and levels of government officials, industrial sectors of operation,

involvement in joint venture arrangements, importance of licenses and permits in Alcon Inc.’s

C-3
 

operations, degree of governmental oversight and inspection, and volume and importance of goods
and personnel clearing through customs and immigration.

6. Alcon Inc. shall review its anti-corruption compliance policies and procedures no
less than annually and update them as appropriate to ensure their continued effectiveness, taking
into account relevant developments in the field and evolving international and industry standards.

Proper Oversight and Independence

7. Alcon Inc. will assign responsibility to one or more senior corporate executives of
Alcon Inc. for the implementation and oversight of Alcon Inc.’s anti-corruption compliance code,
policies, and procedures. Such corporate official(s) shall have the authority to report directly to
independent monitoring bodies, including internal audit, Alcon Inc.’s Board of Directors, or any
appropriate committee of the Board of Directors, and shall have an adequate level of autonomy
from management as well as sufficient resources and authority to maintain such autonomy.

Training and Guidance

8. Alcon Inc. will implement mechanisms designed to ensure that its anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures are effectively communicated to all directors, officers,
employees, and, where necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners. These
mechanisms shall include: (a) periodic training for all directors and officers, all employees in
positions of leadership or trust, positions that require such training (e.g., internal audit, sales, legal,
compliance, finance), or positions that otherwise pose a corruption risk to Alcon Inc., and, where
necessary and appropriate, agents and business partners; and (b) corresponding certifications by
all such directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners, certifying compliance with

the training requirements.

C-4
 

9. Alcon Inc. will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
providing guidance and advice to directors, officers, employees, and, where necessary and
appropriate, agents and business partners, on complying with Alcon Inc.’s anti-corruption
compliance code, policies, and procedures, including when they need advice on an urgent basis or
in any foreign jurisdiction in which Alcon Inc. operates.

Internal Reporting and Investigation

10. = Alcon Inc. will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective system for
internal and, where possible, confidential reporting by, and protection of, directors, officers,
employees, and, where appropriate, agents and business partners concerning violations of the anti-
corruption laws or Alcon Inc.’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies, and procedures.

11. = Alcon Inc. will maintain, or where necessary establish, an effective and reliable
process with sufficient resources for responding to, investigating, and documenting allegations of
violations of the anti-corruption laws or Alcon Inc.’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies,
and procedures.

Enforcement and Discipline

12. Alcon Inc. will implement mechanisms designed to effectively enforce its
compliance code, policies, and procedures, including appropriately incentivizing compliance and
disciplining violations.

13. Alcon Inc. will institute appropriate disciplinary procedures to address, among
other things, violations of the anti-corruption laws and Alcon Inc.’s anti-corruption compliance
code, policies, and procedures by Alcon Inc.’s directors, officers, and employees. Such procedures

should be applied consistently and fairly, regardless of the position held by, or perceived

C-5
 

importance of, the director, officer, or employee. Alcon Inc. shall implement procedures to ensure
that where misconduct is discovered, reasonable steps are taken to remedy the harm resulting from
such misconduct, and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to prevent further similar
misconduct, including assessing the internal controls, compliance code, policies, and procedures
and making modifications necessary to ensure the overall anti-corruption compliance program is
effective.

Third-Party Relationships

14. — Alcon Inc. will institute appropriate risk-based due diligence and compliance
requirements pertaining to the retention and oversight of all agents and business partners,
including:

a. properly documented due diligence pertaining to the hiring and appropriate
and regular oversight of agents and business partners;

b. informing agents and business partners of Alcon Inc.’s commitment to
abiding by the anti-corruption laws, and of Alcon Inc.’s anti-corruption compliance code, policies,
and procedures; and

C. seeking a reciprocal commitment from agents and business partners.

15. Where necessary and appropriate, Alcon Inc. will include standard provisions in
agreements, contracts, and renewals thereof with all agents and business partners that are
reasonably calculated to prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws, which may, depending
upon the circumstances, include: (a) anti-corruption representations and undertakings relating to
compliance with the anti-corruption laws; (b) rights to conduct audits of the books and records of

the agent or business partner to ensure compliance with the foregoing; and (c) rights to terminate

C-6
 

an agent or business partner as a result of any breach of the anti-corruption laws, Alcon Inc.’s
compliance code, policies, or procedures, or the representations and undertakings related to such
matters.

Mergers and Acquisitions

16. — Alcon Inc. will develop and implement policies and procedures for mergers and
acquisitions requiring that Alcon Inc. conduct appropriate risk-based due diligence on potential
new business entities, including appropriate FCPA and anti-corruption due diligence by legal,
accounting, and compliance personnel.

17. Alcon Inc. will ensure that Alcon Inc.’s compliance code, policies, and procedures
regarding the anti-corruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to newly acquired businesses
or entities merged with Alcon Inc. and will promptly:

a. train the directors, officers, employees, agents, and business partners
consistent with Paragraph 8 above on the anti-corruption laws and Alcon Inc.’s compliance code,
policies, and procedures regarding anti-corruption laws; and

b. where warranted, conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly acquired or
merged businesses as quickly as practicable.

Monitoring and Testing

18. Alcon Inc. will conduct periodic reviews and testing of its anti-corruption
compliance codes, policies, and procedures designed to evaluate and improve their effectiveness
in preventing and detecting violations of the anti-corruption laws and Alcon Inc.’s anti-corruption
codes, policies, and procedures, taking into account relevant developments in the field and

evolving international and industry standards.

C-7
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 51 of 70 PagelD: 69

ATTACHMENT D

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Alcon Inc. agrees that it will report to the Fraud Section and the Office periodically, at no

less than twelve-month intervals during a three-year term, regarding remediation and
implementation of the compliance program and internal controls, policies, and procedures
described in Attachment C. During this three-year period, Alcon Inc. shall: (1) conduct an initial
review and submit an initial report, and (2) conduct and prepare at least two follow-up reviews
and reports, as described below:

a. By no later than one year from the date this Agreement is executed, Alcon
Inc. shall submit to the Fraud Section and the Office a written report setting forth a complete
description of its remediation efforts to date, its proposals reasonably designed to improve Alcon
Inc.’s internal controls, policies, and procedures for ensuring compliance with the FCPA and
other applicable anti-corruption laws, and the proposed scope of the subsequent reviews. The
report shall be transmitted to Chief, FCPA Unit, Fraud Section, Criminal Division, U.S.
Department of Justice, 1400 New York Avenue, NW, Bond Building, 11th Floor, Washington,
D.C. 20530 and Chief, Health Care Fraud Unit, United States Attorney’s Office for the District
of New Jersey, 970 Broad Street, 7th Floor, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Alcon Inc. may extend
the time period for issuance of the report with prior written approval of the Fraud Section.

b. Alcon Inc. shall undertake at least two follow-up reviews and reports,
incorporating the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s views on Alcon Inc.’s prior reviews and

reports, to further monitor and assess whether Alcon Inc.’s policies and procedures are

D-1
Mace 2 ole ASSO 5 PRAl Pacument 2 Fuller! OBfeSs/ek
Ne TRO te TS SL LARP PERL Ek of RA MASE a

reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the FCPA and other applicable anti-
corruption laws.

C. The first follow-up review and report shall be completed by no later than
one year after the initial report is submitted to the Fraud Section and the Office. The second
follow-up review and report shall be completed and delivered to the Fraud Section and the Office
no later than thirty days before the end of the Term.

d. The reports will likely include proprietary, financial, confidential, and
competitive business information. Moreover, public disclosure of the reports could discourage
cooperation, impede pending or potential government investigations and thus undermine the
objectives of the reporting requirement. For these reasons, among others, the reports and the
contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except as otherwise agreed
to by the parties in writing, or except to the extent that the Fraud Section and the Office
determine in their sole discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of the Fraud Section’s
and the Office’s discharge of their duties and responsibilities or is otherwise required by law.

e. Alcon Inc. may extend the time period for submission of any of the

follow-up reports with prior written approval of the Fraud Section and the Office.
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 53 of 70 PagelD: 71

2017R00136/BJC/JLH
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Criminal No. 20-539
v. : 18 U.S.C. § 371
ALCON PTE LTD :

INFORMATION

 

The United States charges that, at all times relevant to this Information,

unless otherwise specified:

GENERAL ALLEGATIONS

 

Relevant Statutory Background

1. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, 15 U.S.C.
§§ 78dd-1, et seq. (the “FCPA”), was enacted by Congress for the purpose of, among
other things, making it unlawful to act corruptly in furtherance of an offer, promise,
authorization, or payment of money or anything of value, directly or indirectly, to a
foreign official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business for, or directing
business to, any person. Pertinent to this charge, the FCPA’s accounting provisions,
among other things, require every issuer of publicly traded securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. § 781, or
required to file periodic reports with the United States Securities and Exchange

Commission (“SEC”) under Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C §
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 54 of 70 PagelD: 72

780(d), to make and keep books, records, and accounts that accurately and fairly
reflect transactions and the distribution of the company’s assets, and prohibit the
knowing and willful falsification of an issuer’s books, records, or accounts. 15 U.S.C.
§§ 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a).

ALCON PTE LTD and Other Relevant Entities

 

2. Alcon, Inc. was a multinational eye care company with
headquarters in Fort Worth, Texas, and incorporated in Hinenberg, Switzerland. In
or about April 2011, Alcon, Inc. merged with Novartis AG, a global pharmaceutical
company based in Basel, Switzerland, after which Alcon, Inc. (the “Alcon Division”)
became a wholly owned subsidiary of Novartis AG. Novartis AG’s American
Depository Shares were listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol “NVS.” Novartis AG was an issuer of publicly traded securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and was required to file
periodic reports with the SEC under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act. Thus,
Novartis AG was an “issuer” within the meaning of the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1(a)
and 78m(b). The Alcon Division’s books, records, and accounts were included in the
consolidated financial statements of Novartis AG filed with the SEC.

3. In or about April 2019, Novartis AG spun off the Alcon Division,
including defendant ALCON PTE LTD, and the newly established independent
parent company was named “Alcon Inc.” Alcon Inc. is the lawful successor-in-interest

to Alcon, Inc. (i.e., the Alcon Division).
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 55 of 70 PagelD: 73

4. From in or about 2011 to in or about 2014 (the “relevant time
period”), ALCON PTE LTD was an affiliate of the Alcon Division with headquarters
in Singapore. Among other functions, ALCON PTE LTD provided financial services
and managerial oversight for the Alcon Division’s operations in Asia, including for
two representative offices in Vietnam. ALCON PTE LTD’s books, records, and
accounts were included in the consolidated financial statements that Novartis AG
filed with the SEC.

5. The “Distributor Company,” an entity whose identity is known to
the United States and ALCON PTE LTD, was a limited lability company
incorporated in Vietnam. Among other business, Distributor Company marketed and
sold Alcon Division products to health care providers (“HCPs”) and hospitals in
Vietnam.

Relevant Individuals

 

6. “Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1,” an individual whose identity is
known to the United States, was a high level executive of ALCON PTE LTD and, at
various times, was located in the United States or Singapore. For fiscal year 2014,
Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1 signed two Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certifications that were
false. These false sub-certifications were maintained as part of Novartis AG’s books,

records, and accounts.
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 56 of 70 PagelD: 74

7. “Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 2,” an individual whose identity is
known to the United States, was an employee of ALCON PTE LTD and, at various
times, was located in the United States or Singapore.

8. “Distributor Company Executive 1,” an individual whose identity
is known to the United States, was a high level executive of Distributor Company
during the relevant time period.

9. “Distributor Company Executive 2,” an individual whose identity
is known to the United States, was a high level accounting executive of Distributor
Company during the relevant time period.

Operations in Vietnam

 

10. Vietnam owned and operated state-owned and state-controlled
hospitals and clinics, and these hospitals and clinics performed a government
function. Employees of state-owned and state-controlled hospitals and clinics in
Vietnam (“Vietnam State HCPs”) were “foreign officials” within the meaning of the
FCPA, 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-3(f)(2)(A).

11. The Alcon Division conducted business operations in Vietnam
through two representative offices located in Hanoi, Vietnam, and Ho Chi Minh City,
Vietnam (“Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices”). ALCON PTE LTD provided
management and financial reporting oversight for the Alcon Vietnam Representative

Offices.
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 57 of 70 PagelD: 75

12. The Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices did not directly
conduct sales to end-customers in Vietnam, including to state-owned and state-
controlled hospitals and clinics in Vietnam. Rather, sales to end-customers in
Vietnam were conducted through the Distributor Company.

13. Among other lines of the Alcon Division’s eye care business, the
Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices, through the Distributor Company, sold
surgical equipment and devices such as lasers and intraocular lenses (“IOLs”) to end-
customers in Vietnam, including to state-owned and state-controlled hospitals and
clinics in Vietnam. IOLs are artificial replacement lenses that are implanted in the
eye as part of a treatment for a variety of ailments, such as cataracts.

Overview of the Conspiracy

 

14. Beginning in or about 2007, the Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices and the Distributor Company engaged in a scheme to bribe Vietnam State
HCPs in order to increase sales of LOLs. Participants in the scheme referred to it as
the “consultancy program.”

15. Under the guise of the consultancy program, the Distributor
Company made corrupt payments to HCPs, including Vietnam State HCPs, in
connection with sales of Alcon Division IOLs by the Distributor Company. The
Distributor Company made the payments directly to HCPs, including to Vietnam

State HCPs. The Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices, with the approval of
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 58 of 70 PagelD: 76

employees of ALCON PTE LTD, reimbursed the Distributor Company for up to 50
percent of the costs associated with the improper payments to HCPs.

16. The scheme continued after the Alcon Division merged with
Novartis AG in or about April 2011. Thereafter, between in or about April 2011 and
in or about June 2014, ALCON PTE LTD, through its executives, employees, and
agents, knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed with others to cause Novartis
AG to maintain false accounting records, by, among other things, falsely recording
partial reimbursements to the Distributor Company for improper payments made to
Vietnam State HCPs in ALCON PTE LTD’s internal financial records, which were
consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial records, and by transmitting false
Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certification letters to Novartis AG. These false sub-certification
letters were subsequently maintained in the books, records, and accounts of Novartis
AG.

17. In total, from in or about 2011 through in or about 2014, as a
result of the improper payments to Vietnam State HCPs, ALCON PTE LTD realized
approximately $8,500,000 in profits.

Details of the Scheme

 

18. In or about April 2007, prior to Novartis AG’s merger with the
Alcon Division, the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices, with the knowledge and
involvement of Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1, an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices
executive, and others, began providing money to the Distributor Company, disguised

6
9 ane ERENT Sk PA? RN ee eat OO pes ee Pete pene
Seo HOS SOQ.4PRAF Document 2 Filed? OBf/eS let
bt Na ad a UL NO Rw WLR PR ER GL Pod RA NY Ca €

as consultancy payments and in the form of credit notes, that the Distributor
Company used to make corrupt payments to HCPs, including Vietnam State HCPs.

19. In furtherance of the scheme, on or about April 3, 2007,
Distributor Company Executive 2 sent an email to Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1, an
Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices executive, and others. In the email, Distributor
Company Executive 2 referenced a meeting from March 2007 in which details of the
corrupt consultancy program were discussed. The email attached a list of
approximately 35 HCPs, including Vietnam State HCPs, who were designated to
receive payments in exchange for purchasing Alcon Division I[OLs. The email—and
other contemporaneous communications—also outlined a proposal for the
consultancy program as follows:

a. The consultancy program would cover two types of Alcon
Division [OLs: IQ and Restore;

b. HCPs would be paid 200,000 VND (then equivalent to
approximately $12.50) per IQ IOL purchased and 400,000 VND (then equivalent to
approximately $25.00) per Restore IOL purchased;

C. The Distributor Company would make the payments to
HCPs through bank transfers; and

d. Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices would reimburse
Distributor Company for up to 50 percent of the costs associated with the consultancy

program.
SO PE Re NP ~ em, = pees Lo Pe Ee
Peer GOS SO 5 PAF Paciument 2 Fert BFS sek
Rat At Pd a YY EAA PER Gn a PRINS AA Askar cae €

20. The consultancy program targeted doctors and nurses, many of
whom were Vietnam State HCPs. As explained in an attachment to an email from an
Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices executive dated July 21, 2008, the “[t]arget

9?

customer|s]” for the scheme consisted of the following: “[dJoctor[s] in the
consulta[tion] room,” “[d]octor[s] in the exam room,” “[n]urse[s] in the consulta|[tion]
room,” and the “[c]hief[s] of [Operating Rooms] in” two specific eye hospitals in
Vietnam.

21. Furthermore, the purpose of the consultancy program, as
explained in an email dated July 26, 2008, from a Distributor Company employee to
an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices executive, among others, was to
“encourage|] doctors to introduce and use Alcon’s IOLs and. . . speed up IOLs sales.”

22. At the consultancy program’s peak, in or about 2011, the
Distributor Company made corrupt payments to approximately 200 HCPs, a number
of whom were Vietnam State HCPs, and the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices
disguised reimbursement for those payments as legitimate payments made pursuant
to the consultancy program. These payments aggregated over time. For example,
during 2010, a proposed payment schedule showed one Vietnam State HCP was
scheduled to receive more than 360,000,000 VND (then equivalent to approximately
$18,450) pursuant to the consultancy program, while another Vietnam State HCP

was scheduled to receive more than 450,000,000 VND (then equivalent to

approximately $23,352).
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 61 of 70 PagelD: 79

23. Between in or about 2007 and in or about June 2014, the Alcon
Vietnam Representative Offices, with the approval of employees of ALCON PTE LTD
and others, partially reimbursed the Distributor Company periodically for improper
payments that the Distributor Company made to HCPs, including to Vietnam State
HCPs (for instance, reimbursing approximately $180,000 in or about 2010 and up to
approximately $100,000 in or about 2013 and 2014).

The False Records

 

24. Prior to in or about 2012, the Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices partially reimbursed the Distributor Company for improper payments made
through the consultancy program by causing another Alcon entity to issue credits to
the Distributor Company that offset its outstanding debt balances. These credits were
referred to as “credit notes.”

25. The typical system for issuing the credit notes included the
following steps: (a) Distributor Company employees would regularly send emails to
an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices employee requesting a credit note for a
certain amount related to the consultancy program; (b) the Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices employee reviewed and forwarded the requests to regional
management, including Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 2; and (c) once approved by regional
management, credit notes were issued to the Distributor Company with the stated

reason for the credit note as “consultancy fees.”
9 ane ERENT Sk PA? PN ie aah OO pes A eae Eee bet
feo HOS SQ 4 PRAF Document 2 Filect OBfFSi et
bt Na ad a UL NO Rw WLR PR ER GL Pod RA NY Ca €

26. After 2011, the Distributor Company, with the knowledge of
certain employees of ALCON PTE LTD, continued to make improper payments to
HCPs, including to Vietnam State HCPs, in order to increase sales of Alcon Division
IOLs, and ALCON PTE LTD continued to reimburse the Distributor Company
indirectly for a portion of those payments.

27. Between in or about August 2011 and in or about 2012, the Alcon
Vietnam Representative Offices, with the approval of employees of ALCON PTE LTD
and others, changed the methodology for reimbursing the Distributor Company for a
portion of the improper payments made through the consultancy program.
Specifically, rather than reimburse the Distributor Company by issuing credit notes
for “consultancy fees,” the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices partially
reimbursed the Distributor Company for the payments through other, inflated
reimbursable costs, such as marketing, human resources, or margin reconciliation
costs.

28. In furtherance of the scheme, in an email dated August 15, 2011,
an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices executive wrote to Alcon Pte Ltd Executive
2 and others about continued financial support for the consultancy program and
suggested using the Distributor Company’s margin in order to cover the consultancy
program costs. The email noted that “[Distributor Company Executive 1] agreed to
remain their activities to secure business as much as possible but [Distributor
Company Executive 1] need[s] our support more in term|s] of finance.” In the email,

10
? a EREN PTO SSPE? PN On cee et OO Pe Sh A eye Pepe be Se RL RN

feo HOS SQ 4 PRAF Document 2 Filect OBfFSi et PY Dana: Qt

bat Na a ta a OW BASRA REL GL od Ra AAS al € Xe FO RANG Dh
%

oe,
re
Neg

an Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices executive noted further, “I also discuss[ed]
with [Distributor Company Executive 1] our scenario of increasing the margin to
cover USD 120K ... With this support, [the Distributor Company] will propose the
marketing plan for next year for Alcon|’s] review and agree[ment] before
implementation.”

29. Employees of ALCON PTE LTD and the Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices also discussed using a marketing budget to cover the costs of
reimbursing Distributor Company in connection with the improper payments made
under the consultancy program. For example, on or about November 23, 2011, a
Distributor Company employee sent an email to two Alcon Vietnam Representative
Offices executives, among others, summarizing a November 9, 2011 meeting, during
which personnel from the Distributor Company and from the Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices discussed various ways that the consultancy program would
operate in 2012. Specifically, the Distributor Company employee wrote: “Consultant
Program in 2012: Alcon will consider and share the finance difficulties of [Distributor
Company] by:

e Increasing the ratio[| share of Loss of exchange rate...

e [Playing sample for [Distributor Company]

e [U]sing some money from marketing budget to support
[Distributor Company].”

30. Furthermore, during a phone call in or about late summer 2014,

Distributor Company Executive 1 told an Alcon Pte Ltd employee that the Distributor

11
¢ ane ERENT Sk PA? ~ mec ae me sf pee =i cre et aw re tae)
Pier TAs SOLAR Pyacsmant 2 Edmri! Aat 7H Paxnall: ae
bt Na ad a UL NO Rw WLR PR ER GL Pod 44 e MOE OAS PA FP CALQRS ae Re

a

Company had used up all of its funds to pay for Alcon Division’s surgical equipment
and could no longer pay the “usual considerations” to Vietnamese HCPs to ensure
they purchased Alcon Division products.

31.  Inor about May or June 2014, Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1 told an
Alcon Pte Ltd employee, who was responsible for reviewing the financials for the
Alcon Division’s business in Vietnam, that no one needed to know about the
Distributor Company’s 2014 profit and loss analysis (“Distributor Company’s P&L
Analysis”).

32. Shortly thereafter, on or about June 11, 2014, an Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices executive sent an Alcon Pte Ltd employee a copy of the
Distributor Company’s P&L Analysis, which included a number of line items that
concealed improper payments to HCPs, including to Vietnam State HCPs, in fiscal
year (“FY”) 2013 and FY 2014, including: purported “[c]onsultant cost” of
approximately $111,157 for FY 2013, purported “[c]onsultant cost” of approximately
$97,000 for FY 2014, purported “HR” cost of approximately $800,000 for FY 2013,
purported “HR” cost of approximately $740,000 for FY 2014, purported
“lajdministration cost” of approximately $514,000 for FY 2013, and purported
“la]dministration cost” of approximately $572,000 for FY 2014.

33. Together, these entries in the Distributor Companys P&L

Analysis correlated to ongoing efforts by ALCON PTE LTD to conceal the

12
OPE PA OER PLD ~ oe pathy Soe tee ae
Moe FA Ba Aria: PNA mirenesnt 3 Mibmed MA POR Poe
: Sad SR ESN MR PAR aT Or a ee tr ee aera PS PRENE ONS

at Na tah Get wa Naat a NOH Ae ete h Ph Ge so ua! FAA dS

tg ee oe AA
SO At FO BaneiM R82
LAR HM, Oo

aman SE At 3

eaPibe ryen FP Fb b

CALE Lead LP OF UP PU Caan
Nes: 33

reimbursement of the Distributor Company for improper payments made to Vietnam
State HCPs and others.

34. ALCON PTE LTD, through its executives, employees, and agents,
knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed with others to falsely record in ALCON
PTE LTD’s internal financial records partial reimbursement of the improper
payments that the Distributor Company made to HCPs, including to Vietnam State
HCPs, pursuant to the consultancy program. By recording reimbursements for these
payments as legitimate expenses, such as consulting expenses, marketing expenses,
human resource expenses, administration costs, and/or margin reconciliation costs,
ALCON PTE LTD, through its executives, employees, and agents, concealed the true
nature of these payments and caused Novartis AG to maintain false financial records.

35. Furthermore, as part of the conspiracy, Alcon Pte Ltd Executive
1, who participated in the scheme and knew of the corrupt payments to Vietnam State
HCPs, signed and transmitted two false Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certification letters
dated July 4, 2014, and October 7, 2014, to the Alcon Division’s Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer. These false sub-certification letters were

subsequently maintained in the books, records, and accounts of Novartis AG.

13
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 66 of 70 PagelD: 84

COUNT ONE
(Conspiracy to Violate the Books and Records Provision of the FCPA)

36. Paragraphs 1 through 35 of this Information are realleged
here.

37. Between in or about 2011 and in or about 2014, in the United
States and elsewhere, defendant

ALCON PTE LTD

together with others known and unknown, knowingly and willfully did combine,
conspire, confederate, and agree together and with each other to commit an
offense against the United States, that is: to knowingly and willfully falsify and
cause to be falsified books, records, and accounts required, in reasonable detail, to
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
Novartis AG, an issuer within the meaning of the FCPA, contrary to 15 U.S.C. 8§
78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(5), and 78ff(a).

Object of the Conspiracy

 

38. The object of the conspiracy was for ALCON PTE LTD and its
co-conspirators to conceal improper payments made to Vietnam State HCPs by
falsely recording partial reimbursements to the Distributor Company in ALCON
PTE LTD’s internal financial records, which were consolidated into Novartis AG’s
financial records, and by transmitting false Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certification
letters to Novartis AG, which caused Novartis AG to maintain false accounting

records.

14
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 67 of 70 PagelD: 85

Manner and Means of the Conspiracy
39. The manner and means by which ALCON PTE LTD and its
co-conspirators sought to accomplish the object of the conspiracy included, among
other things, the following:

a. Under the guise of the consultancy program, the
Distributor Company made corrupt payments to HCPs, including Vietnam State
HCPs, in connection with sales of Alcon Division IOLs by the Distributor
Company. The Distributor Company made the payments directly to HCPs,
including to Vietnam State HCPs, and the Alcon Vietnam Representative Offices,
with the approval of employees of ALCON PTE LTD, reimbursed the Distributor
Company for up to 50 percent of the costs associated with the improper payments
to HCPs.

b. ALCON PTE LTD, through its executives, employees,
and agents, falsely recorded partial reimbursements to the Distributor Company
for improper payments made to Vietnam State HCPs in ALCON PTE LTD’s
internal financial records as legitimate expenses, such as consulting expenses,
marketing expenses, human resource expenses, administration costs, and/or
margin reconciliation costs, which were consolidated into Novartis AG’s financial

records.

15
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 68 of 70 PagelD: 86

Overt Acts
AO. In furtherance of the conspiracy and to effect its object,

ALCON PTE LTD and its co-conspirators committed or caused the commission of
the following acts in the United States and elsewhere:

a. In or about late summer 2014, Distributor Company
Executive 1 told an Alcon Pte Ltd employee that the Distributor Company had
used all of its funds to pay for Alcon Division’s surgical equipment and could no
longer pay the “usual considerations” to Vietnamese HCPs to ensure that they
purchased Alcon Division products.

b. In or about May or June 2014, Alcon Pte Ltd Executive
1 told an Alcon Pte Ltd employee, who was responsible for reviewing the financials
for the Alcon Division’s business in Vietnam, that no one needed to know about
the Distributor Company’s P&L Analysis.

C. On or about June 11, 2014, an Alcon Vietnam
Representative Offices executive sent an Alcon Pte Ltd employee a copy of the
Distributor Company’s P&L Analysis, which included a number of line items that
concealed improper payments to HCPs, including to Vietnam State HCPs, in FY

2013 and FY 2014.

16
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 69 of 70 PagelD: 87

d. At other times during the relevant time period, ALCON
PTE LTD, through its executives, employees, and agents, falsely recorded
reimbursements for payments to the Distributor Company as legitimate expenses,
such as consulting expenses, marketing expenses, human resource expenses,
administration costs, and/or margin reconciliation costs.

e. On or about July 4, 2014, Alcon Pte Ltd Executive 1,
who participated in the scheme and knew of the corrupt payments to Vietnam
State HCPs, signed and transmitted a false Sarbanes-Oxley sub-certification
letter to the Alcon Division’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

In violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371.

! Qe &)r2)eer =

ROBERT ZINK ‘ARPENITO
Chief, Fraud Section United States Attorney
Criminal Division District of New Jersey

U.S. Department of Justice

17
Case 2:20-cr-00539-SDW Document 2 Filed 06/25/20 Page 70 of 70 PagelD: 88
CASE NUMBER: 20-cr-539

 

 

United States District Court
District of New Jersey

 

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Vv.

ALCON PTE LTD

 

 

INFORMATION

18 U.S.C. § 371

 

 

CRAIG CARPENITO
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

 

 

BERNARD J. COONEY
SENIOR TRIAL COUNSEL
JOSHUA L. HABER
ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY
(973) 645-2823

 

 
