Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Magyar Telekom and Former Executives
with Bribing Officials in Macedonia and Montenegro

Firm and Parent Company Agree to Pay $95 Million to Settle Civil and
Criminal Charges

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2011-279

Washington, D.C., Dec. 29, 2011 — The Securities and Exchange
Commission today charged the largest telecommunications provider in
Hungary and three of its former top executives with bribing government and
political party officials in Macedonia and Montenegro to win business and shut
out competition in the telecommunications industry.

 

Additional Materials

» SEC complaint v. the companies
®» SEC Complaint v. the executives
» Litigation Release No. LR-22213

 

The SEC alleges that three senior executives at Magyar Telekom Plc.
orchestrated, approved, and executed a plan to bribe Macedonian officials in
2005 and 2006 to prevent the introduction of a new competitor and gain
other regulatory benefits. Magyar Telekom's subsidiaries in Macedonia made
illegal payments of approximately $6 million under the guise of bogus
consulting and marketing contracts. The same executives orchestrated a
second scheme in 2005 in Montenegro related to Magyar Telekom's
acquisition of the state-owned telecommunications company there. Magyar
Telekom paid approximately $9 million through four sham contracts to funnel
money to government officials in Montenegro.

Magyar Telekom's parent company Deutsche Telekom AG also is charged with
books and records and internal controls violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA).

Magyar Telekom agreed to settle the SEC's charges by paying more than
$31.2 million in disgorgement and pre-judgment interest. Magyar Telekom
also agreed to pay a $59.6 million criminal penalty as part of a deferred
prosecution agreement announced today by the U.S. Department of Justice.
Deutsche Telekom settled the SEC's charges, and as part of a non-prosecution
agreement with the Department of Justice agreed to pay a penalty of $4.36
million.

"Magyar Telekom's senior executives used sham contracts to funnel millions
of dollars in corrupt payments to foreign officials who could help them keep
competitors out and win business," said Kara Novaco Brockmeyer, Chief of the
SEC Enforcement Division's FCPA Unit. "They purposely structured the sham
contracts to circumvent internal review, and when questions were eventually
raised about their use of 'consulting' contracts, they reconfigured them as
‘marketing’ contracts to avoid scrutiny and prolong their scheme."

The three former top executives at Magyar Telekom charged by the SEC for
orchestrating the bribery schemes are:

e Elek Straub, former Chairman and CEO.

e Andras Balogh, former Director of Central Strategic Organization.

® Tamas Morvai, former Director of Business Development and
Acquisitions.

According to the SEC's complaints filed in the Southern District of New York, in
the wake of legislation intended to liberalize the Macedonian
telecommunications market, Magyar Telekom entered into a secret
agreement entitled the "Protocol of Cooperation" with senior Macedonian
government officials to delay or preclude the issuance of a license to a new
competitor and mitigate other adverse effects of the new law. To win their
support, Magyar Telekom paid €4.875 million to a third-party intermediary
under a series of sham contracts with the intention that the intermediary
would forward money to the government officials. Magyar Telekom also
promised a Macedonian political party the opportunity to designate the
beneficiary of a business venture in exchange for the party's support.

The SEC further alleges that in Montenegro, Magyar Telekom used
intermediaries to pay bribes to government officials in return for their support
of Magyar Telekom's acquisition of the state-owned telecommunications
company on terms favorable to Magyar Telekom. At least two Montenegrin
government officials involved in the acquisition received payments made
through the bogus contracts. A family member of a top Montenegrin
government official also received payments.
The SEC's complaint against Straub, Balogh, and Morvai alleges that they
violated or aided and abetted violations of the anti-bribery, books and
records, and internal controls provisions of the FCPA; knowingly circumvented
internal controls and falsified books and records; and made false statements
to the company's auditor. The SEC seeks disgorgement and penalties and the
imposition of permanent injunctions. Magyar Telekom and Deutsche Telekom
consented to the entry of final judgments without admitting or denying the
SEC's allegations. The settlements are subject to court approval.

The SEC's case was investigated by Adam Eisner under the supervision of
Charles Cain, Deputy Chief of the FCPA Unit. Robert Dodge will lead the SEC's
litigation efforts. The SEC acknowledges the assistance of the Fraud Section of
the Department of Justice's Criminal Division and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. The SEC also acknowledges the assistance provided by the
Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority, the German Federal Financial
Supervisory Authority (BaFin), and the Swiss Office of the Attorney General.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Kara Novaco Brockmeyer
Chief, FCPA Unit, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4767

Charles Cain

Deputy Chief, FCPA Unit, SEC Division of Enforcement
202-551-4911

http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2011/2011-279.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 12/29/2011
