    

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

  

| )
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, )
Plaintiff, )
y- ) ~
) Case No.
MAGYAR TELEKOM, PLC, and )
DEUTSCHE TELEKOM, AG, )
) COMPLAINT
Defendants. )
)

 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission’”) alleges:

SUMMARY

l. This action arises from multiple violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”) by defendant Magyar Telekom, Plc. (“Magyar
Telekom”) and corresponding violations of the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the FCPA by Magyar Telekom’s parent company, defendant Deutsche
Telekom, AG (“Deutsche Telekom”).

2. In 2005 and 2006, senior executives then employed at Magyar Telekom,
including its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, organized, approved, and executed a
plan to bribe government officials in the Republic of Macedonia to delay or prevent the
introduction of a new competitor to Magyar Telekom’s subsidiaries operating in
Macedonia and to obtain certain regulatory benefits. Magyar Telekom, through its
subsidiaries in Macedonia, made payments of €4.875 million during 2005 and 2006 to an
intermediary under the guise of bogus “consulting” and “marketing” contracts that did

not have any legitimate business purpose. The payments were made with the knowledge,

-l-
the firm belief, or under circumstances that made it substantially certain, that all or a.
portion of the proceeds would be offered, promised or paid to Macedonian government
officials. In return, the officials would agree to adopt regulatory ctianges favorable to
Magyar Telekom’s business and prevent a new competitor from entering the market. The
former executives also offered or promised Macedonian political party officials a
valuable business opportunity in return for the party’s support of Magyar Telekom’s
desired benefits.

3. _ In 2005, the same executives then employed at Magyar Telekom
organized, approved, and executed a second corrupt scheme in which they authorized
~ Magyar Telekom and its affiliates to make payments intended to channel and conceal
corrupt payments to government officials in the Republic of Montenegro. Magyar
Telekom and its subsidiaries in Montenegro made payments of €7.35 million to several
third-party consultants under four sham contracts and received no legitimate value in
return. These payments were made with the knowledge, the firm belief, or under
circumstances that made it substantially certain, that all or a portion of the payments
would be offered, promised, or paid to Montenegrin officials to facilitate Magyar
Telekom’s acquisition of Telekom Crne Gore A.D. (“TCG”) on favorable terms.

4. During the relevant period, Magyar Telekom and Deutsche Telekom
lacked sufficient internal accounting controls to prevent and detect violations of the
FCPA. Asa result, the contracts described above were not subjected to meaningful
review, and substantially all of the amounts were paid without question, prior to the
initiation of an internal investigation at the direction of the Audit Committee of Magyar

Telekom.
5. Magyar Telekom recorded the payments to third-parties under these
contracts on its books and records in a manner that did not accurately reflect the true
purpose of the contracts. The false entries in Magyar Telekom’s books and records were
consolidated into the books and records of Deutsche Telekom, which reports the results

of Magyar Telekom’s operations in its consolidated financial statements.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

6. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(d),
21(e) and 27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C.
§§ 78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa].

7. Venue in this District is proper pursuant to Section 27 of the Exchange
Act because acts or transactions constituting federal securities law violations occurred
within the Southern District of New York.

8. Magyar Telekom, directly or indirectly, made use of the mails and of the
means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce in furtherance of the acts, practices
and courses of business described in this Complaint.

9. At all relevant times, Magyar Telekom and Deutsche Telekom were
United States issuers that each filed reports on Form 20-F with the Commission pursuant

to Section 13 of the Exchange Act.

DEFENDANTS
10. Magyar Telekom is a limited liability stock corporation organized under
_ the laws of Hungary and headquartered in Budapest. Magyar Telekom is the largest

telecommunications company in Hungary. Magyar Telekom operates subsidiaries in
Macedonia, Montenegro, and other countries. At all relevant times, Magyar Telekom’s
securities were publicly traded through American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”) listed
on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and registered with the Commission
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. Effective November 12, 2010, Magyar
Telekom voluntarily delisted its ADRs from trading on the NYSE.

11. Deutsche Telekom is a private stock corporation organized under the laws
of Germany and headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Deutsche Telekom acquired an
approximately 60% controlling interest in Magyar Telekom in July 2000 and reports the
results of Magyar Telekom’s operations in its consolidated financial statements.

Deutsche Telekom’s shares were publicly traded through ADRs listed on the NYSE and
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. Effective
June 18, 2010, Deutsche Telekom voluntarily delisted its ADRs from trading on the

NYSE.

- OTHER RELEVANT INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES

12. Makedonski Telekommunikacii A.D. Skopje (“MakTel”) is the former
state-owned telecommunications services provider in Macedonia. In January 2001,
Magyar Telekom, acting in a consortium with other bidders, acquired partial ownership
of MakTel through a privatization by the Macedonian government. By late 2004,
Magyar Telekom had acquired sole ownership of an approximately 51% stake in MakTel
by purchasing additional shares from the Macedonian government and from private
shareholders. Magyar Telekom now holds its MakTel shares through a wholly-owned
holding company. The Macedonian government currently retains an approximately 35%

stake in MakTel.
| 13. Telekom Crne Gore A.D. (n/k/a-Crnogorski Telekom) (“TCG”) is the
former state-owned public telecommunications services provider in Montenegro. In
March 2005, Magyar Telekom acquired an approximately 51% interest in TCG from the
Government of Montenegro through a privatization. At the same time, Magyar Telekom

acquired an additional approximately 22% stake in TCG from minority shareholders.

FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS
A. Violations of the FCPA in Macedonia

14. During 2005 and 2006, senior executives then employed by Magyar
Telekom (the “former executives’) offered, promised, authorized and/or paid money or a
thing of value to corruptly influence Macedonian government and political party officials
in order to obtain their agreement to provide Magyar Telekom with business and
regulatory benefits.

15. | The former executives caused Magyar Telekom subsidiaries in Macedonia
to pay at least €4.875 million to a third-party under a series of sham marketing and
consulting contracts. The former executives knew or firmly believed that the third-party
would offer, promise, or pay all or a portion of the payments to government officials in
exchange for business and regulatory benefits to Magyar Telekom, or the circumstances
were such that made this result substantially certain to occur. They also offered a
Macedonian minority political party within the coalition government the opportunity to
designate the beneficiary of a business venture in exchange for their party’s support of
Magyar Telekom’s desired benefits.

16. In early 2005, the Macedonian Parliament enacted a new Electronic |

Communications Law designed to liberalize the telecommunications market in a manner
that would have been unfavorable to Magyar Telekom. Specifically, among other things,
the law authorized the telecommunications regulatory bodies in Macedonia to hold a
public tender for a license to operate a third mobile telephone business that would
directly compete in Macedonia against Magyar Telekom’s subsidiary, MakTel, and
imposed increased frequency fees and other regulatory burdens.

17. The former executives devised and executed a plan to corruptly influence
government officials from both political parties in Macedonia’s coalition government in
order to obtain regulatory advantages sought by Magyar Telekom in light of the new law.
In approximately May 2005, two of the former executives approved and executed a secret
agreement with a senior Macedonian government official to delay or preclude the
issuance of a third mobile telephone license and to mitigate the other adverse effects of
the new law, including not requiring MakTel to pay the increased frequency fee. In
approximately August 2005, two of the former executives approved and executed a
similar secret agreement with a senior Macedonian government official from the other
political party to obtain the same business and regulatory benefits. The agreements were
unlawful under Macedonian law because they were in violation of the recently enacted
Electronics Communications Law, required the officials to ignore their lawful duties, and
were not properly recorded as official government documents.

18. The Macedonian government officials consented to the agreements after
the former Magyar Telekom executives offered to direct separate payments of up to
€10 million in three installments between June 2005 and June 2006 to or for the benefit
- of government officials. Between 2005 and 2006, as Magyar Telekom received the

benefits promised in the agreement, the former Magyar Telekom executives authorized
payments by MakTel and other Magyar Telekom subsidiaries of €4.875 million to a
Greek intermediary through at least six false “success fee based” contracts for
“consulting” and “marketing” services. These contracts were executed with the
knowledge or firm belief that some or all of the payments under the contracts would be
offered, promised or paid to government officials, or under circumstances that made such
a result substantially certain to occur.

19. The only executed copies of the two agreements with the government
officials were retained by the Greek intermediary, and the existence and true purpose of
the agreements were unknown to anyone within Magyar Telekom and Deutsche Telekom
other than the former executives and a small number of additional participants.

20. The former executives structured the contracts with the Greek
intermediary for the purpose of circumventing Magyar Telekom’s internal controls and
avoiding detection. The consulting and marketing contracts entered into in 2005 and
2006 generally were backdated or contained success-based contingencies that had already
been satisfied by the time they were executed, and were supported by false performance
certificates or other fabricated evidence of performance. The contracts served no
legitimate business purpose, and no valuable performance was rendered under them.
Instead, the contracts were used to funnel money, which the former executives referred to
amongst themselves in code as “logistics,” to a third party in circumstances in which the
former executives knew, had the firm belief, or in which it was substantially certain that
it would be offered, promised or paid, in full or in part, to government officials.

21. In addition, the former Magyar Telekom executives offered a contract for

a valuable business opportunity to an entity designated by the minority political party as
part of their effort to secure the benefits sought by Magyar Telekom. Although the
contract was executed by one of the former executives, the business opportunity
ultimately was not developed. .

22.. Asaresult of these payments and offer, the Macedonian government
delayed the introduction of a third mobile telephone competitor until 2007, by which time
(1) an intervening election had occurred and a new coalition government had obtained
control in Macedonia; and (2) the former executives had resigned from Magyar Telekom.
Macedonian government officials also unlawfully reduced the frequency fee tariffs

imposed on MakTel. |

23. Certain electronic communications made in furtherance of the improper
payments and the concealment of the payments, including drafts of the agreements with
the government officials and the offer to the minority party official, and copies of certain
of the contracts with the intermediary, were transmitted by Magyar Telekom employees
and others through U.S. interstate commerce or stored on computer servers located in the
United States.

24. The payments made under these contracts were recorded on Magyar
Telekom’s books and records in a manner that did not accurately reflect the true purposes
of the contracts under which they were made, and were consolidated into Deutsche
Telekom’s financial statements. At the time the payments were made, Magyar Telekom
and Deutsche Telekom lacked sufficient internal accounting controls to provide

reasonable assurances that the transactions were legitimate and recorded appropriately.
B. FCPA Violations in Montenegro

25. In 2005, the former executives engaged in a scheme to have Magyar
Telekom and its subsidiaries corruptly influence government officials in Montenegro in
an effort to acquire TCG, the former state-owned telecommunications company. In
furtherance of this scheme, Magyar Telekom and its subsidiaries paid €7.35 million under
four bogus consulting contracts with the knowledge, the firm belief, or under
circumstances that made it substantially certain, that the payments would be offered,
promised or paid to government officials in Montenegro to facilitate the TCG acquisition
on terms favorable to Magyar Telekom.

26. In October 2004, the Government of Montenegro issued a tender to
privatize its approximately 51% stake of the state-owned telecommunications company,
_ TCG. Magyar Telekom submitted a bid that sought to obtain a super-majority ownership
stake, consisting of the government’s 51% share, plus enough additional minority shares
from private investors to give Magyar Telekom ownership of at least two-thirds of TCG.
The Board of Directors of Magyar Telekom, in accordance with the decision of the
Management Board of Deutsche Telekom, limited the price that Magyar Telekom could
pay on a price per share basis for the acquisition. Magyar Telekom’s bid for the
government shares was conditioned on its ability to acquire the minority shares at the
intended valuation.

| 27. | Magyar Telekom prevailed in the public tender process, but the

Montenegrin government rejected Magyar Telekom’s provision to condition the
acquisition upon acquiring a super-majority stake. The share purchase agreement

ultimately was executed without this condition.
28. By March 2005, Magyar Telekom ultimately succeeded in acquiring an
approximately 73% stake in TCG on its desired terms, but only after government officials
committed the Government of Montenegro to contribute an additional €0.30 per share to
the private shareholders.

29. After the Government of Montenegro facilitated Magyar Telekom’s
acquisition of shares of TCG from minority shareholders, the former executives caused
Magyar Telekom, TCG, and its affiliates to make payments to third-parties with the
knowledge, firm belief, or under circumstances that made it substantially certain, that
some or all of those payments would be offered, promised or paid to individuals who had
been government officials at the time of the TCG acquisition.

30. | Magyar Telekom entered into two nearly-identical contracts with two
third-party consultants, purportedly for assistance in purchasing the additional shares
from the minority shareholders. The consultants were shell companies based in the
Republic of Mauritius and the Republic of the Seychelles that had never before provided
services to Magyar Telekom or Deutsche Telekom, and one of the entities was not even |
legally incorporated when its contract was purportedly signed. Two of the former
executives executed the contracts on Magyar Telekom’s behalf after Magyar Telekom
had already acquired TCG, but backdated the contracts. These contracts concealed the
true parties-in-interest and the third-party consultants performed no legitimate services
under either of these contracts. Documents purportedly evidencing the consultants’
performance under the contracts were fabricated to give the appearance that the

consultants rendered legitimate services.

-10-
31. The former executives caused Magyar Telekom to make two payments
totaling €4.47 million under these contracts between approximately May 12 and May 20,
2005. The former executives of Magyar Telekom either knew or held a firm belief that
all or a portion of the payments would be offered, promised or paid to government
officials, or circumstances existed that made such a result substantially certain to occur.

32. TCGandaTCG affiliate entered into two additional consulting contracts
in 2005 that purported to relate to Magyar Telekom’s acquisition of TCG. Both contracts -
were executed with the knowledge and approval of the former Magyar Telekom
executives.

33. | One of these contracts purported to require a New York, NY-based
counterparty to provide vaguely-identified assistance in connection with the acquisition
and integration of TCG into Magyar Telekom’s corporate structure. One of the former
Magyar Telekom executives signed the contract on behalf of a TCG affiliate and
backdated it. The TCG affiliate made payments of €580,000 under this contract.

34. This contract actually was intended to conceal payments made to the sister
of a senior Montenegrin government official through a nominee entity identified in the
contract. The official’s sister did not actually render any bona fide services to Magyar
Telekom or TCG under the contract. Magyar Telekom falsely recorded the payments
under this contract as a consulting expense on its accounting books and records.

35. The other sham consulting contract was with a shell company based at a
residential address in London. Under the contract, the consultant purportedly would
provide Magyar Telekom with strategic advice related to the telecommunications market

in Southeastern Europe. However, none of the reports provided by the consultant

-11-
represented original work. Instead, each report bore a mark on each page identifying the
report as the product of another consulting firm. The consultant provided no legitimate
services to Magyar Telekom. Although a TCG affiliate paid €2.3 million the consultant
between approximately November 7 and December 28, 2005, Magyar Telekom’s auditors
valued the reports provided at approximately €20,000.

36. | These two consulting contracts (1) concealed the true counterparties;

(2) did not accurately describe the true services to be rendered; (3) purported to be
success based, but were entered into after the relevant contingencies had already been
satisfied by other service providers; (4) served no legitimate business purpose, and

(5) were supported by false performance certificates or fabricated evidence of
performance. The services under these contracts also duplicated services that had
previously been provided to Magyar Telekom by known parties for substantially lower
prices.

37. | The payments under the four contracts described above were recorded on
Magyar Telekom’s books and records in a manner that did not accurately reflect the true
purposes of the contracts under which they were made, and were consolidated into
Deutsche Telekom’s financial statements. At the time the payments were made, Magyar
Telekom and Deutsche Telekom lacked sufficient internal accounting controls to provide

reasonable assurances that transactions were legitimate and recorded appropriately.

-12-
FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF

' Magyar Telekom Violated —
Section 30A of the Exchange Act

38. Paragraphs | through 37 are realleged and incorporated herein by
reference.

39. Magyar Telekom, a United States issuer, made use of the mails or other
means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer,
payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, gift,
promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to a person, while
knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of value will be offered, given, or
promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, to any foreign political party or
official thereof, or to any candidate for foreign political office, for purposes of
influencing their acts or decisions, securing an improper advantage, or inducing them to
use their influence to assist the issuer in obtaining or retaining business.

40. By reason of the foregoing, Magyar Telekom violated Section 30A of the

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1].

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF

Magyar Telekom and Deutsche Telekom Violated
Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)2 of the Exchange Act

41. Paragraphs 1 through 40 are realleged and incorporated herein by
reference.

42. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make and
keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly

reflect the transactions and dispositions of their assets.

-13-
43. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and
maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable
assurances that transactions are executed in accordance with management’s general or
specific authorization; and transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any
other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for assets.

. 44. — By reason of the foregoing, Magyar Telekom and Deutsche Telekom |

violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.

§§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B)].-

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court:

A. Enter a final judgment permanently enjoining Magyar Telekom from
violating, or aiding and abetting violations of, Sections 30A [15 U.S.C. §78dd-1],
13(b)(2)(A) [15 U.S.C. §78m(b)(2)(A)], and 13(b)(2)(B) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)] of
the Exchange Act;

B. Enter a final judgment permanently enjoining Deutsche Telekom from
violating, or aiding and abetting violations of, 13(b)(2)(A) [15 USC. §78m(b)(2)(A)]
and 13(b)(2)(B) [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)] of the Exchange Act;

C. Enter a final judgment ordering Magyar Telekom to disgorge all ill-gotten
gains wrongfully obtained asa result of its illegal conduct plus prejudgment interest;

OD. Enter a final judgment ordering Magyar Telekom and Deutsche Telekom
to pay civil penalties pursuant to Section 21(d) [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)] and Section 32 [15

U.S.C. § 78ff] of the Exchange Act; and

-14-
E. Grant the Commission such other relief as is just and appropriate.

Dated: December 29, 2011

Respectfully submitted,

Robert I. Dodge(RD-0433)
Kara N. Brockmeyer
Charles E. Cain

Adam J. Eisner

Attorneys for Plaintiff

Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F. Street, NE Washington, DC 20549
Tel: (202) 551-4421 (Dodge)

Fax: (202) 772-9282 (Dodge)

Email: DodgeR@sec.gov

-15- |
