 

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

Proceedings Clerk

| 7:23 am, Apr 23, 2015
CFTC Docket No. 15— 2° XN SJ

In the Matter of:

 

 

Deutsche Bank AG,

Respondent.

Neen” Nee” Nome” me ee” mee” me” See”

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission” or “CFTC”) has reason to
believe that Deutsche Bank AG (“Deutsche Bank” or “Respondent”) has violated Sections 6(c),
6(d) and 9(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act” or the “CEA”), 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b
and 13(a)(2) (2006). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether
Respondent has engaged in the violations set forth herein, and to determine whether any order
shall be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

I.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer’’), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, except to the extent Respondent
admits those findings in any related action against Deutsche Bank by, or any agreement with, the
Department of Justice or any other governmental agency or office, Respondent herein consents
to the entry and acknowledges service of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections
6(c) and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”),

 

Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding and
in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party; provided,
however, that Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or conclusions in this
Order, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding
in bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of this Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer
or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in
any other proceeding.

 
Il.

The Commission finds the following:

A, Summary

For more than six years, from at least 2005 through early 2011 (the “relevant period”),
Deutsche Bank, by and through the acts of certain employees, engaged in systemic and pervasive
misconduct directed at manipulating critical, international financial benchmark rates, the London
Interbank Offered Rate (‘LIBOR”) and the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“Euribor’’). Deutsche
Bank’s profit-driven misconduct undermined the integrity of LIBOR and Euribor and the
integrity of the U.S. and global financial markets.

LIBOR and Euribor are the basis for trillions of dollars of financial instruments,
particularly derivatives contracts, including interest rate swaps and futures contracts. The
Eurodollar futures contract traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (“CME”) is one of the
largest futures contract in the world based on open interest and notional value of trading volume
and settles against U.S. Dollar LIBOR. Rates for consumer loans, such as mortgages, student
loans, car loans, and credit card accounts, are tied to LIBOR. Markets, investors and consumers
around the world rely on the integrity of these benchmark rates.

The benchmark rates are determined by contributions from select panel banks, including
Deutsche Bank, and are supposed to reflect each bank’s honest assessment of the costs of
borrowing unsecured funds in the cash markets. More than two dozen Deutsche Bank traders and
benchmark submitters violated this fundamental precept by focusing on the need to generate
trading profits instead of providing honest and accurate information to the relevant cash markets.
As aresult, Deutsche Bank routinely based its U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc
LIBOR and Euribor submissions on its cash and derivatives trading positions, the profitability of
which were tied to LIBOR and Euribor. Through its regular, false LIBOR and Euribor
submissions, Deutsche Bank routinely attempted to manipulate LIBOR and Euribor in order to
ensure that the published rates for each benchmark benefited its trading positions. At times,
Deutsche Bank was successful in its attempts to manipulate LIBOR for U.S. Dollar, Yen,
Sterling, and Swiss Franc, and Euribor.

Over this more than six year period and across currencies, Deutsche Bank’s submitters
routinely took into account other Deutsche Bank traders’ derivatives trading positions, as well as
their own cash and derivatives trading positions, when making the bank’s LIBOR and Euribor
submissions. On other occasions, Deutsche Bank aided and abetted other panel banks’ attempts
to manipulate Euribor and Yen LIBOR. The conduct of Deutsche Bank’s submitters, traders,
desk managers, and at least one senior manager was systemic and pervasive, occurring across

 
multiple trading desks and offices, including London, Frankfurt, New York, Tokyo,” and
Singapore.’

Allowing submitters and traders to prioritize profit motives over appropriate submission
considerations, Deutsche Bank permitted a culture of trader self-interest to exist and created
conflicts of interest, which allowed the misconduct to occur. Certain managers encouraged
continual information sharing between derivatives traders, money market traders, and submitters
for the various benchmarks, even restructuring business lines such that, in Deutsche Bank’s
London office, derivatives traders and submitters sat together. In addition to making routine
written requests for beneficial LIBOR and Euribor submissions, the traders often shouted their
requests for beneficial submissions across the trading floor to the submitters.’ A senior manager”
regularly sat with the traders and encouraged them and their counterparts in other offices to
communicate and exchange trading positions, so submitters became clearly aware of the
submissions that were most favorable to the various desks’ trading positions. Senior desk
managers in London, Frankfurt, New York, and in the Deutsche Tokyo Subsidiary also made
requests to benefit their own trading positions, facilitated the requests from their.traders for
beneficial submissions, and generally promoted the practice of inappropriately using benchmark
interest rate submissions to help the traders increase profits and minimize losses on their and the
desk’s trading positions. The cash and derivatives trading on the desks responsible for Deutsche
Bank’s misconduct increased throughout the relevant period and the desks generated significant
revenues for Deutsche Bank, particularly during the global financial crisis of 2007 through 2009.

Despite the obvious conflict of interest, Deutsche Bank, at times, allowed its traders who
primarily traded derivatives, such as its Yen derivatives trader, to be responsible for making its
submissions, thus making it easy to skew the bank’s submissions to benefit their own positions
and to accommodate the requests of their fellow derivatives traders.° These improper submission

 

* The Deutsche Bank Tokyo office referenced herein is Deutsche Securities, Inc. Japan (“Deutsche

Tokyo Subsidiary”). The Deutsche Tokyo Subsidiary is the brokerage and investment banking arm
located in Tokyo, Japan for Deutsche Bank AG. It is not registered with the Commission in any capacity.
> Deutsche Bank’s misconduct extended beyond the LIBOR and Euribor benchmarks. Through its
internal investigation, Deutsche Bank identified evidence of similar misconduct with respect to attempts
to influence, and at times attempts to manipulate, other interest rate benchmarks, including, but not
limited to, Singapore Interbank Offered Rate, Singapore Swap Offer Rate, and Tom/Next Indexed Swaps
for the Swiss Franc.

For purposes of this Order, the term “request” means a request for a preferential LIBOR or Euribor
submission for a particular tenor.

5 . . :
The term “senior management” or “senior manager” refers to Deutsche Bank employees with

responsibilities (formally or informally delegated) broader than the management of trading desks,
although their responsibilities may have at times included managing trading desks. The term “senior
management” or “senior manager” does not include executive managers or members of Deutsche Bank’s
Management Board, Supervisory Board, or Group Executive Committee,

° In June 2008, the British Bankers’ Association (“BBA”) clarified in guidance provided to panel banks
that the basis for a bank’s submission must be the rates at which bank staff members primarily
responsible for management of the bank’s cash, rather than the bank’s derivative trading book, consider

3

 
practices continued even after the BBA, the trade association responsible for the management
and publication of LIBOR, clarified in June 2008 that submissions should be made by those who
are responsible for management of the bank’s cash, rather than the bank’s derivatives trading
book. One particular Deutsche Bank derivatives trader-submitter used his position as the bank’s
submitter to assist the senior yen trader at UBS (“UBS Senior Yen Trader”) in his massive
scheme to manipulate Yen LIBOR over the same relevant period.’

As a result of this profit-based submission process, improper written and oral submission
requests were common practice, and LIBOR and Euribor submitters routinely skewed Deutsche
Bank’s contributions, routinely made false submissions, and routinely attempted to manipulate,
and, at times, successfully manipulated LIBOR and Euribor. Thus, Deutsche Bank’s LIBOR and
Euribor submissions were not a reflection of Deutsche Bank’s honest assessment of the costs of
borrowing funds in the relevant interbank markets, as required by each of the benchmarks’
definitions,

Deutsche Bank’s traders were able to accommodate and facilitate the attempts to
manipulate LIBOR and Euribor for years because Deutsche Bank lacked internal controls,
procedures and policies concerning its LIBOR and Euribor submission processes, and failed to
adequately supervise its trading desks and traders. Deutsche Bank did not have any policies,
internal controls, or procedures for determining or monitoring its submissions to ensure that
Deutsche Bank’s LIBOR and Euribor submissions reflected an honest assessment of the costs of -
borrowing unsecured funds in the interbank markets. Deutsche Bank’s failure to provide internal
training or implement standards addressing benchmark interest rate submissions, allowance of
inappropriate communications amongst traders and submitters, and related conflicts of interest
amplified the potential for misconduct and permitted the misconduct to continue for a number of
years. Deutsche Bank engaged in this wrongful conduct even after the Division of Enforcement
requested in April 2010 that Deutsche Bank conduct an internal investigation of its U.S. Dollar
LIBOR submission practices. In fact, Deutsche Bank did not make meaningful improvements in
its internal controls until mid-2011 and did not formalize a policy about conflicts of interest
among traders and submitters relating to benchmark submissions until February, 2013.

OK 2 a a aR

 

that the bank can borrow unsecured interbank funds in the London market. The BBA also clarified that
panel banks could not contribute a rate based on the pricing of any derivative financial instrument.

7 On December 19, 2012, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections

6(c) and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
against UBS AG and UBS, finding, among other things, that UBS AG and UBS, through the UBS Senior
Yen Trader, attempted to manipulate Yen LIBOR, at times successfully, through multiple methods. The
Commission’s Order found that one of the UBS Senior Yen Trader’s strategies included coordinating
with traders at other Yen panel banks, including Deutsche Bank, identified in the Order as the Yen Bank
F, to attempt to manipulate Yen LIBOR by making false Yen LIBOR submissions beneficial to their
respective derivatives trading positions. See In re UBS AG et al., CFTC Docket No. 13-09 (CFTC filed
December 19, 2012), available at
http:/Awww.cfite.gov/ucm/groups/public/@lrenforcementactions/documents/legalpleading/enfubsorder121

912.pdf.

 
In accepting Deutsche Bank’s Offer, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s
cooperation with the Division of Enforcement’s investigation of this matter. The Commission
notes that at the outset of the Division of Enforcement’s investigation in April 2010 and
continuing until mid-2011, Deutsche Bank’s cooperation was not sufficient, and, in part, this
affected a timely resolution of this matter. After mid-2011, Deutsche Bank provided significant
cooperation and assistance to the Division of Enforcement.

B. Respondent

Deutsche Bank AG is a German global banking and financial services company
headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany. Deutsche Bank operates in over 70 countries and has
offices in major financial centers including Frankfurt, London, New York City, Tokyo,
Singapore, and Hong Kong. On December 31, 2012, Deutsche Bank AG was provisionally
registered as a swap dealer with the Commission.

Cc. Facts
1. The Fixing of LIBOR and Euribor
a. LIBOR and its Fixing

LIBOR is the most widely used benchmark interest rate in the world and affects market
participants and consumers throughout the world, including in the United States. LIBOR is used
as a barometer to measure strain in money markets and is often a gauge of the market’s
expectation of future central bank interest rates. LIBOR is used in interest rate transactions,
including loans, over-the-counter swaps, and exchange-traded interest rate futures and options
contracts on many of the world’s major futures and options exchanges. For example, U.S. Dollar
LIBOR is used as the basis for settlement of the CME’s Eurodollar futures contracts. The
products indexed to LIBOR have an approximate notional value of $500 trillion.

During the relevant period, under the auspices of the BBA,® LIBORs were issued on a
daily basis for ten currencies, including U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc, with fifteen
tenors (i.e., durations for interest rates) ranging from overnight through twelve months.” Certain
currencies, such as U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc are more widely referenced in
interest rate contracts. One, three and six-months are the most common tenors referenced in
LIBOR-indexed transactions.

According to the BBA, LIBOR “is based on offered inter-bank deposit rates contributed
in accordance with the Instructions to BBA LIBOR Contributor banks.” The BBA explained
that:

 

® On February 1, 2014, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited was appointed as the new

administrator for LIBOR, following authorization by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”).

” ‘Tn 2013, the BBA discontinued publication of LIBOR for five currencies, namely the Canadian

Dollar, Australian Dollar, New Zealand Dollar, Danish Krone, and Swedish Krona.

5

 
[a]n individual BBA LIBOR Contributor Panel Bank will contribute the rate at
which it could borrow funds, were it to do so by asking for and then accepting
inter-bank offers in reasonable market size just prior to [11:00 a.m. London
time].

Every business day shortly before 11:00 a.m. London time, the banks on the LIBOR
panels submitted their rates to Thomson Reuters. A trimmed averaging process excluded the top

and bottom quartile of rates and the remaining rates were averaged for each tenor. That averaged
rate became the official BBA daily LIBOR (the “LIBOR fixing”) for each tenor.

The BBA made public the daily LIBOR fixing for each currency and tenor, as well as the
daily submissions of each panel bank, through Thomson Reuters and the other data vendors
licensed by the BBA. This information was made available and relied upon by market
participants and others throughout the world, including in the United States.

By its definition, LIBOR requires that the submitting panel banks exercise their judgment
to determine the rates at which they may obtain unsecured funds in the London interbank market.
These definitions require that submissions relate to funding and do not permit consideration of
factors unrelated to the costs of borrowing unsecured funds, such as the benefit to a bank’s
derivatives or money market trading positions.’!

b. Euribor and its Fixing

Euribor is used internationally in derivatives contracts, including interest rate swaps and
futures contracts.’* According to the Bank for International Settlements, over-the-counter
interest rate derivatives, such as swaps and FRAs, comprised contracts worth over $187 trillion
in notional value at the end of 2012,

During the relevant period, daily Euribors were issued on behalf of the European Banking
Federation (“EBF”)? for fifteen tenors, ranging from one week to twelve months. One, three
and six months are the most common tenors referenced in Euribor-indexed transactions.

 

'° This definition of LIBOR has been used since 1998 to the present.
'! Tn June 2008, the BBA clarified that panel banks could not contribute a rate based on the pricing of
any derivative financial instrument. BBA guidelines issued in October 2009 further clarified that LIBOR
submitters “should not ask intermediaries where they believe LIBOR rates will set on a given day and use
this as a basis for submissions, This misses the point of the benchmark, and is a circular process that
would rapidly lead to inaccurate rates.”

2 In October 2011, the CME launched the Euribor Futures contract, which settles based on the three-

month Euribor.

The EBF is an unregulated non-profit association of the European banking sector based in Brussels,

Belgium. Among other functions, the EBF oversees the publication of Euribor.

 
According to the EBF, Euribor is defined as the rate “at which Euro interbank term
deposits are offered by one prime bank to another prime bank” within the Economic and
Monetary Union of the European Union (“EMU”) at 11:00 a.m. Central European Time (“CET”)
daily.

Euribor is determined using submissions from a panel of over 40 mostly European banks
considered to be the most active in the Euro zone with the highest volume of business in the
EMU. According to the EBF instructions, panel banks “must quote the required euro rates to the
best of their knowledge,” based on their observations of where the Euro is trading in that market.

Like the BBA panel banks, the Euribor panel banks submit their rates electronically to
Thomson Reuters, which manages the official Euribor process by collecting the submitted rates
from the contributing banks, calculating the rate, and then releasing it for publication just before
noon CET. Thomson Reuters computes that day’s published Euribor by eliminating the highest
and lowest fifteen percent of submissions collected, and averaging the remaining submissions.
That average rate becomes the official daily EBF Euribor (the “Euribor fixing”). On behalf of
EBF, Thomson Reuters then issues the Euribor fixing and the submissions of each panel bank to
its subscribers and other data vendors. Through these licensing agreements with third parties,
such as Thomson Reuters, EBF disseminates the information throughout the world, including in
the United States,

He oe He oe Ho 2

By their definitions, LIBOR and Euribor require that the submitting panel banks exercise
their judgment to determine the rates at which, depending on the benchmark, they or a prime
bank may obtain unsecured funds in the respective London and Euro interbank markets, These
definitions require that submissions relate to funding and do not permit consideration of factors
unrelated to the costs of borrowing unsecured funds, such as cash or derivatives trading
positions,

2. Deutsche Bank’s LIBOR and Euribor Submission Processes and the Embedded
Conflicts of Interest

a. Deutsche Bank’s Submission Processes in London and Frankfurt

Deutsche Bank is a member of both the BBA and the EBF, and is one of the panel banks
that submits rates for the determination of LIBOR for various currencies, including U.S. Dollar,
Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc, and Euribor.’’ During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank made
its LIBOR submissions for U.S. Dollar, Sterling, and Yen out of its London office and made
Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor submissions out of its Frankfurt office. Deutsche Bank’s
LIBOR and Euribor submission processes and the traders and trading desks involved in this
misconduct were part of the Global Finance and Foreign Exchange Group (“GFFX”).

 

'* During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank was also a member of the LIBOR panels for the Canadian

Dollar, Australian Dollar, Danish Krone, New Zealand Dollar, and, beginning in June, 2006, the Swedish
Krona.

 
Deutsche Bank’s GFFX Group consisted of two main lines of businesses, including
Global Finance and FX Forwards, Included in this group were Pool Trading desks and Money
Market Derivatives (““MMD”) desks. Deutsche Bank’s LIBOR and Euribor submitters sat on the
Pool Trading desks, where they traded both cash and derivatives trading products. While the
submitters and other pool traders regularly transacted in interbank cash deposits and loans to
meet the bank’s funding needs each day in all currencies, they also had their own derivatives
trading books that allowed them not only to hedge risk in their cash trading but also to generate
profits for the desk in a proprietary fashion. MMD traders, who also held proprietary books,
primarily traded derivatives trading products with a focus on short term maturities from
overnight to two years. Some of the derivatives products traded by both pool and MMD traders
included futures (including the CME Eurodollar futures contract), interest rate swaps, forward
rate agreements, overnight index swaps and tenor basis swaps. The cash and derivatives
positions held by the Deutsche Bank pool traders and MMD traders were often priced off of
LIBOR and Euribor. Some of these positions settled or reset on International Monetary Market
(“IMM”) dates, which are quarterly dates in March, June, September, and December.

The Pool Trading and MMD desks were organized by currency and comprised of senior
traders who oversaw the desks and often trained junior traders. A regional manager in Deutsche
Bank’s Frankfurt and New York offices oversaw the business lines for that location, including
the Pool Trading and MMD desks. One senior manager located in London had global
responsibility for the Pool Trading and MMD desks (“Global Senior Manager”). Prior to 2006,
the Pool Trading desks and MMD desks operated mostly independent of each other, despite their
overlapping trading responsibilities.

b. The LIBOR and Euribor Submitters’ Conflicts of Interest Created by
Deutsche Bank

In 2006, Deutsche Bank merged the Pool Trading and MMD desks in its bank branches
in an effort to increase the bank’s trading profits through an alignment of the desks’ related
trading positions. The merger of the business lines resulted in the MMD derivatives traders in
Deutsche Bank’s London office sitting next to, or in close proximity to, Deutsche Bank cash
traders. Some of those cash traders were the bank’s LIBOR submitters. From London, the
Global Senior Manager instructed all traders to have open communication across offices and
instilled an expectation that.the derivatives traders and submitters would communicate routinely
about relevant market conditions and individual trading positions.

This commingling of business lines caused a significant cultural shift within the bank
globally, where traders were incentivized to engage in improper communications with the bank’s
LIBOR and Euribor submitters. As a result, traders routinely communicated to submitters their
preferential requests for LIBOR and Euribor submissions which were beneficial to individual
and desk trading positions. Because the bank’s Euribor and Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions
were set in Frankfurt, the Global Senior Manager encouraged the Frankfurt Euribor and Swiss
Franc LIBOR submitters to contact derivatives traders in London to obtain the preferred rates to
submit each day. In addition to the pervasive oral requests, some of which were shouted across
the combined trading desks, submitters and traders routinely communicated on Bloomberg chat
terminals or internal Deutsche Bank messaging systems to discuss preferential LIBOR and

 
Euribor requests. The Global Senior Manager regularly sat amongst the traders on the trading
floor and was aware of the many oral and written requests for preferential LIBOR and Euribor
submissions.

Deutsche Bank further embedded this inherent conflict of interest in its Pool Trading
desks when it allowed its pool traders to fill dual roles as both submitters and derivatives traders.
This enabled submitters to prioritize their individual and the desk’s profits over their
responsibility to make honest assessment of the costs of borrowing unsecured funds when
submitting rates to the BBA and EBF. Not only did the submitters routinely take into account
the traders’ preferential LIBOR and Euribor requests, the submitters also regularly and
improperly considered their own trading positions when determining their LIBOR and Euribor
submissions.

Deutsche Bank’s merger of Pool Trading and MMD desks proved successful and resulted
in significant profits for the bank. For example, throughout the relevant period, the Pool Trading
and MMD desks together utilized a basis spread trading strategy (7.e., trading the spread between
two or more tenors) to generate profits. By mid-2008, during the global financial crisis, rates
among the different tenors of LIBOR and Euribor began to widen dramatically. The Global
Senior Manager and the London manager of the MMD desks (“London MMD Manager”), one of
the most senior, highly regarded and highly compensated derivatives traders at Deutsche Bank,’°
recognized the basis spread trading strategy as a way to generate significant profits off of the
turbulent interest rate markets, and Deutsche Bank’s traders entered into massive derivatives
basis trading positions based upon the bet that the spread between tenors would continue to
widen.

The Global Senior Manager and other senior traders often discussed this strategy openly
during weekly meetings, ensuring that their strategy was well known and utilized across currency
desks in both Pool Trading and MMD. As a result, Deutsche Bank’s LIBOR and Euribor
submitters were aware of this strategy, particularly during the financial crisis, and were
cognizant of the particular LIBOR and Euribor submissions desired by traders to benefit those
positions based on this strategy. As such, the submitters routinely built this bias into Deutsche
Bank’s LIBOR and Euribor submissions, even in the absence of oral or written communications
from traders. Deutsche Bank’s Pool Trading and MMD desks posted tremendous profits during
2008 and 2009, at the height of the financial crisis, due in part to this trading strategy.'°

By failing to separate responsibilities for making LIBOR and Euribor submissions from
its trading functions, Deutsche Bank allowed an environment to exist that yielded significant
opportunities for traders and submitters to attempt to manipulate LIBOR and Euribor
submissions to the benefit of the bank’s trading positions, and the traders and submitters took full

 

> The London MMD Manager relocated to Deutsche Bank’s Singapore office in March 2010, where he

became the Global Manager of MMD.
'° In 2007, Deutsche Bank’s MMD desks reported trading revenue and commissions of €399 million
(1.29% of total bank revenue); in 2008, €1.942 billion (14.27% of total revenue); and in 2009, €992
million (3.55% of total revenue).

 
advantage of those opportunities. As a result, the submitters routinely skewed Deutsche Bank’s
LIBOR and Euribor submissions to benefit the bank’s trading positions by attempting to
manipulate the fixings of LIBOR and Euribor, At times, their attempts to manipulate U.S.
Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor were successful.

3. Deutsche Bank’s Inadequate Internal Controls and Failure to Appreciate the
Scope of Misconduct

During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank allowed the conflicts of interest to flourish by
failing to put in place sufficient benchmark-specific systems or controls surrounding risk and
compliance to adequately supervise its derivatives traders and submitters. Deutsche Bank did
not have any policies, internal controls, or procedures for determining, monitoring, or
supervising its LIBOR and Euribor submissions to ensure that Deutsche Bank’s submissions
reflected an honest assessment of the costs of borrowing unsecured funds in the relevant
interbank markets. Deutsche Bank’s failure to provide internal training or standards addressing
benchmark interest rate submissions, allowance of inappropriate communications amongst
traders and submitters, and related conflicts of interest amplified the potential for misconduct and
permitted it to continue for over six years. Further, Deutsche Bank did not begin to put into
place any specific policies, procedures, or controls around its benchmark submission processes
until mid-2011, and the Bank did not formalize a policy addressing conflicts of interests between
traders and submitters for another two years, in February 2013.

In investigating the conduct at issue here, Deutsche Bank failed to appreciate until mid-
2011 the extent to which it had systemic and pervasive manipulative conduct by its traders and
managers across multiple lines of businesses in offices around the world. As a result, this
conduct continued well after the Division of Enforcement began its investigation of Deutsche
Bank’s U.S, Dollar LIBOR submissions in early 2010.

4. Deutsche Bank’s False Reporting, Attempted Manipulation, and Manipulation
of U.S. Dollar LIBOR

During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank, through its submitters and traders, routinely
made false U.S, Dollar LIBOR submissions in furtherance of its attempts to manipulate U.S,
Dollar LIBOR. At times, they were successful in their attempts to manipulate. This misconduct
originated primarily out of Deutsche Bank’s London offices, and at times, its New York and
Frankfurt offices.

The U.S. Dollar Pool Trading desk in London was responsible for submitting Deutsche
Bank’s U.S. Dollar LIBOR submissions. The head of the U.S. Dollar pool trading desk
(“London Pool Trading Manager”) oversaw various junior traders who worked daily with him
and made the bank’s U.S. Dollar LIBOR submissions under his direction. Similar to the London
MMD Manager, the London Pool Trading Manager was a well-respected Deutsche Bank trader
and highly compensated. From 2004 throughout the rest of the relevant period, a trader
supervised by the London Pool Trading Manager (“U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter’) became the
primary U.S. Dollar LIBOR submitter and, at times, the London Pool Trading Manager acted as
a back-up submitter,

10

 
During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank pool and MMD traders in London routinely
made requests to the U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter or the London Pool Trading Manager for
submissions that would benefit their derivatives trading positions. As described above, as a
result of the pool and MMD traders working side-by-side, this conduct was pervasive with
requests for beneficial U.S. Dollar LIBOR submissions being either shouted across the trading
floor, passed from one trader to another trader sitting next to the submitter, or sent to submitters
through electronic communications. On occasion, pool and MMD traders and managers in
Deutsche Bank’s New York office and at least one pool trader in Frankfurt also asked for LIBOR
submissions that benefited their positions. The U.S, Dollar LIBOR Submitter, at times,
contacted the pool and MMD traders in the various offices to solicit whether they had requests
for beneficial LIBOR submissions. The submitter resolved any conflicts between the requests by
first checking with the London Pool Trading Manager. The U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter
routinely accommodated the traders’ requests in making Deutsche Bank’s U.S. Dollar LIBOR
submissions.

The U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter also acted as a trader but only occasionally traded his
own book. Rather, he worked closely with the London Pool Trading Manager and other pool
and MMD traders, and was expected to understand and be aware of their derivatives trading
positions. Over the relevant period, the submitter became so familiar with the trading positions
of the U.S. Dollar traders that he either informed the traders of his intent to submit a skewed
LIBOR without waiting for a request or he simply submitted U.S. Dollar LIBOR submissions in
a manner he believed would benefit their derivatives trading positions.

As described above, Deutsche Bank U.S. Dollar pool and MMD traders, particularly the
London Pool Trading Manager, utilized the basis spread trading strategy promoted by the Global
Senior Manager and the London MMD Manager. The U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter was clearly
aware of this trading strategy and, throughout the relevant period, but primarily during the global
financial crisis of 2008 through 2009, often skewed, without written or oral requests from
traders, Deutsche Bank’s U.S. Dollar LIBOR submissions in order to benefit the bank’s trading
positions based on this strategy. Deutsche Bank’s U.S. Dollar Pool and MMD trading desks
were some of the most highly profitable trading desks during this time.

Below are examples of the requests that numerous traders communicated to the U.S.
Dollar Submitter and the London Pool Trading Manager:"”

March 22, 2005: (emphasis added)

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter: if you need something in particular in the
libors i.e. you have an interest in a high or a
low fix let me know and there's a high chance
i'll be able to go in a different level. just give

 

 

' The communications quoted in this Order contain shorthand trader language and many typographical

errors. The shorthand and errors are explained in brackets within the quotations only when deemed
necessary to assist with understanding the discussion. Unless otherwise noted the communications are by
email, chat, or other electronic messaging system.

Il

 
me a shout the day before or send an email
from your blackberry first thing.

New York U.S. Dollar Trader 1: Thanks - our CP guys have been looking for it a
bit higher - not a big deal

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter: if anything the cash has actually cheapened up
since yesterday too albeit by 1/2 tick - true
could get some sub 75 days thru the next week

 

April 1, 2005: (emphasis added)

 

 

London U.S. Dollar Trader 1: COULD WE PLS HAVE A LOW 6MTH

FIX TODAY OLD BEAN?
September 21, 2005: (emphasis added)

London MMD Manager: Subject: “$ LIBORS: 83, 89, 96 and 11
LOWER MATE LOWER !!

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter: will see what i can do but it’ll be tough as the
cash is pretty well bid

London MMD Manager: [Another U.S. Dollar Panel Bank] IS DOIN

IT ON PURPOSE BECAUSE THEY HAVE
THE EXACT OPPOSITE POSITION - ON
WHICH THEY LOST 25MIO SO FAR - LETS
TAKE THEM ON!!

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter: ok, let's see if we can hurt them a little bit
more then

 

November 28, 2005: (emphasis added)

 

London Pool Trading Manager: [an]ything either way from you guys? we are
still short basis in 1 mth so lowere the better
New York Regional Manager: HAHAHAH, NEVER FAILS. WE WOULD

 

PREFER IT HIGHER... WE HAVE ABOUT
15BB 1MO RECEIVES...THANKS, JUST
ASKING IS VERY MUCH
APPRECIATED....

London Pool Trading Manager: will do like [U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter] then
~ ask, and do the opposite... let us know the days
you rec, first fix tom will set the tone

New York Regional Manager: JUST TOMOORROW ON THE REC, THEN
PAYING 15BB 12/12 THRU ©

 

December 29, 2006: (emphasis added)

 

London U.S. Dollar Trader 2: Hello [U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter] Come on
32 on 1. Mth Cu my frd
U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter: ok will try to give you a belated christmas

 

present...! have a good new year

12

 
February 28, 2007: (emphasis added)
New York U.S. Dollar Trader 2:
U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter:
New York U.S. Dollar Trader 2:

 

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter:
New York U.S. Dollar Trader 2:

 

March 28, 2007:
Frankfurt Non-Euro Desk Manager:

London Pool Trading Manager:
Frankfurt Non-Euro Desk Manager:

LIBOR HIGHER TOMORROW?

shouldn't be

COME ON. WE ALWAYS NEED HIGHER
LIBORS !!! HAHA

haha, i'll do my best fkeer

NO WORRIES. JUST CURIOUS, USURVE
THE DEBACLE OF TH PAST 24 HRS>

..1 WOULD NEED A HIGH 3MTS LIBOR
TODAY, BUT I THINK YOU DO TOO!!
35?

YEP PSE

August 13, 2008: (response to U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter’s email) (emphasis added)
New York U.S. Dollar Senior Trader: Subject: $ Isbors unch

Oh bullshit.....strap on a pair and jack up
the 3M. Hahahahaha

In addition to the LIBOR requests traders made to benefit specific trading positions,
traders also requested gradual movements in LIBOR in order to set the trend in upcoming
LIBOR fixings to benefit longer term derivatives trading positions, which the U.S. Dollar
LIBOR submitter routinely accommodated. Similarly, the U.S. Dollar LIBOR submitter was
also aware of month-end derivatives trading positions held by the traders and often submitted
Deutsche Bank U.S. Dollar contributions skewed to benefit those positions. The submitter
routinely accommodated these requests by skewing Deutsche Bank’s daily U.S. Dollar LIBOR
contributions at month-end, over a period of days, weeks, or even months. Below are examples

of such requests:

November 28, 2006: (email to London Pool Trading Manager) (emphasis added)
New York U.S. Dollar Senior Trader: Altho I don't have a huge 1 mL fix tomy, I

August 12, 2007: (emphasis added)
New York Regional Manager:

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter:

am paying 1 mL on about 40bn throughout
December so I was hoping for a low 1 mL fix
tomw to set the tone

If possible, we need in NY Imo libor as low as
possible next few days....tons of pays coming
up overall....thanks!

Will do our best [New York Regional
Manager]. I'll coordinate the overnight in the
same way as we did last week with [New York
U.S. Dollar Trader 1] tomorrow

13

 
December 13, 2007: (emphasis added)
Frankfurt Non-Euro Desk Manager: [London Pool Trading Manager], I NEED
YOUR HELP...IF IT SUITS YOU CAN WE
PUT IN A HIGH LIBOR TILL NEXT
TUESDAY IN THE 3 MTS?
London Pool Trading Manager: ok

 

 

On a handful of occasions, either the London Pool Trading Manager or the U.S. Dollar
LIBOR submitter contacted interdealer brokers in attempts to influence the overall LIBOR fixing
by requesting the brokers to make preferential LIBOR predictions in specific tenors.'* Below are
examples of these communications:

 

 

 

 

 

 

March 14, 2007:

London Pool Trading Manager: These markets falling in is not good for us
personally. We need good old fashioned boom
time [.. .]

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter: [. ..][Broker 1] reckon 3s libor only 34.75 fyg
even with edh where it is now which is bilx

London Pool Trading Manager: Get it lower, we need it. [.. .|

U.S. Dollar LIBOR Submitter: just spoke to him. now thinking 34.5, 1 think
should be lower still will keep pressing will do

February 27, 2008:

Broker 2: which direction do you want tom 1 mth libor
pushed ?

London Pool Trading Manager: lower and 3mth higher

Broker 2: imafraid thats not going to happen big boy

London Pool Trading Manager: its worked so far

Broker 2: 13-08 for them tom

Accordingly, throughout the relevant period, Deutsche Bank routinely made false reports
regarding U.S, Dollar LIBOR and attempted to manipulate U.S. Dollar LIBOR in order to
benefit Deutsche Bank’s trading positions. As such, Deutsche Bank’s U.S. Dollar LIBOR
submissions were not made in accordance with the BBA definitions and criteria for LIBOR
submissions, At times, they were successful in their attempted manipulations.

 

18 ; ws as o
Brokers act as intermediaries between major dealers in the cash and derivatives markets to facilitate

execution of interdealer trades, Brokers assist banks in obtaining funding by facilitating the negotiation
of deposits and loans, and in hedging those transactions with derivatives trades often referenced to
LIBOR.

14

 
S. Deutsche Bank’s False Reporting, Attempted Manipulation, and Manipulation
of Euribor

Over the relevant period, Deutsche Bank’s Euribor submitters routinely skewed Euribor
submissions based upon requests from Deutsche Bank derivatives traders for rates set to benefit
derivatives trading positions that were linked to Euribor. The Frankfurt-based submitters also
routinely took their own trading positions into account in making the bank’s Euribor
submissions, In addition, Deutsche Bank derivatives traders coordinated on several occasions
with derivatives traders at other Euribor panel banks to ensure Euribor contributions benefited
their respective trading positions. Deutsche Bank routinely made false Euribor contributions in
furtherance of its attempts to manipulate Euribor. At times, Deutsche Bank was successful in its
attempts to manipulate Euribor.

The London MMD Manager made the majority of the traders’ requests, although several
traders on multiple desks also made such requests. The London MMD Manager, Deutsche
Bank’s highly regarded senior trader, routinely used several means in his attempts to manipulate
the Euribor fixing. His approach to manipulating Euribor encompassed the following: (1) he
regularly requested Deutsche Bank's Frankfurt-based submitters to make Euribor submissions
beneficial to his derivatives trading positions; (2) he at times worked with the Euribor submitters
to make bids or offers in the market at rates intended to influence market perception of prevailing
cash rates (known as “pushing cash”), and, thereby, potentially influence other banks’ Euribor
submissions; (3) he coordinated on several occasions with derivatives traders at other Euribor
panel banks by entering into agreements to make requests for preferential Euribor submissions to
their respective submitters; and (4) he coordinated with traders at other Euribor panel banks to
convince interdealer brokers to post false rates on their cash market screens for the purpose of
potentially influencing other banks’ Euribor submissions.

a. Deutsche Bank’s Internal Attempts to Manipulate Euribor in Order to
Benefit Trading Positions

Deutsche Bank assigned responsibility for making its Euribor submissions to traders and
managers on the Euro Pool Trading desk in Frankfurt. Among other duties, these pool traders
had responsibility for raising cash in Euro, Swiss France and other currencies, and traded Euro-
based interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements generally tied to various tenors of
Euribor.

The Euribor submitters, some of whom were desk managers, continued the systemic
practice of focusing on their derivatives trading positions as a basis for their Euribor
submissions. The submitters also maintained daily contact with MMD Euro traders in London,
including the London MMD Manager, to ensure they were aware of the bank’s various trading
positions tied to Euribor. Multiple traders regularly and openly made requests to the submitters

 

'? At least one of the traders on the Frankfurt Non-Euro Pool Trading Desk also had responsibility for

making the bank’s Euribor submissions, either as a back-up submitter or, as of mid-2010, as part of the
team of Euribor submitters. The Deutsche Bank Swiss Franc submitter(s) involved in the Euribor
conduct described here also routinely attempted to manipulate Swiss Franc LIBOR. See infra, pp. 32-35.

15

 
for Euribor submissions beneficial to their derivatives trading positions. When requests were not
forthcoming from London, the Euribor submitters actively solicited them from the traders as part
of their effort to coordinate the offices’ trading books and the bank’s Euribor submissions in a
manner to maximize their profits.

The Euribor submitters regularly accommodated these requests unless at times the
requests conflicted with their own needs for their derivatives trading positions. As the London
MMD Manager’s stature as a successful trader grew within the bank, his requests for beneficial
Euribor submissions often were accommodated over competing requests from other traders.
When the basis trading strategy implemented by the Global Senior Manager and the London
MMD Manager began to generate significant profits in mid-2008, the Euribor submitters
understood the Euribor submission(s) needed each day to benefit the spread positions and made
their Euribor submissions accordingly, even absent a specific request from traders,

The following are some examples of the many improper communications between the
Euribor submitters and the MMD Euro traders:

July 10, 2005: (emphasis added)

 

London MMD Manager: HI FRDS ANY CHANCE TO PUSH UP
YOUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE 3MTH
EURIBOR FIX?

Euribor Submitter: HI [Euribor Submitter] HERE USUALLY IT

WOULD BE 11 ON OUR SIDE SO DO U
REALLY NEED A 12 FOR TODAY AS DB
CONTRIBUTION?

London MMD Manager: EONIA AT 2.068 AND O/N TRADING 2.08
IT WUD MAKE SENSE TO HAVE A
HIGHER 3MTH FIX. WE SHORT A LOT
OF JUNES ABOUT 40000 LOTS

 

Euribor Submitter: OK WE WILL CONTRIBUTE A 12 FOR
TODAY AND MONDAY HAVE A NICE
WEEKEND

London MMD Manager: THX A LOT [...]

 

July 6, 2006: (emphasis added)
Frankfurt Euro Desk Manager: HIHI [London MMD Manager], I JUST

WANT TO CHECK WHETHER WE HAVE
CONFLICTING INTERESTS IN THE
JUNE 06 SETTLEMENT. IT DOESN'T
MAKE SENSE IF WE TRY TO PUSH ONE
WAY AND U WLD LIKE TO HAVE IT
THE OTHER WAY AROUND. WE WLD
PREFER A LOW 3ME FIXING TO PUSH
JUNE06 HIGH. IS THIS UR
PREFERENCE AS WELL?

 

16

 
London MMD Manager:

 

Frankfurt Euro Desk Manager:

 

March 23, 2007: (emphasis added)
Frankfurt Euro Desk Manager:

 

London MMD Manager:

 

Frankfurt Euro Desk Manager:

 

July 26, 2007: (emphasis added)
London MMD Euro Trader:

 

Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Euro Trader:

 

 

Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Euro Trader:
Frankfurt Regional Manager:

 

 

London MMD Euro Trader:

 

Frankfurt Regional Manager:

 

London MMD Euro Trader:

 

Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Euro Trader:

 

Frankfurt Regional Manager:

 

THX VM FOR CHECKING [Frankfurt Euro
Desk Manager| - YES WE WOULD PREFER
A LOW FIXING AS WELL

THX [London MMD Manager], THAT WILL
MAKE US MORE POWERFUL IN
PUSHING THE FIX WE WANT IT.

FIXINGS AS USUAL MONSIEUR? LOW
1M HIGH 6M (SAME HERE)

yes please - thank you very much [Frankfurt
Euro Desk Manager]

DE RIEN

[...]... IS IT TOO LATER TO ASK FOR
SOME NICE LIBOR FIXINGS?

ILL PUT LOW 1M OK FOR U

WE ACTUALLY NEED HJIGHEE
EVERYTHING

IAM SORRY I SHOULD KNOW UR SIDE
SO YOU HAVE ALREADY SENT THNM?
THEY REE WE CAN CHANGE IT
UNTILI11:59 ... SO WE HAVE ENOUGH
TIME .. TELL ME EXACTLY WHICH
RATE U WANT TO HAVE IN

WE NEED HIGH 6M PLS, AS MUCH AS
YOU CAN PUSH IT

WELL EEEE WILL PUT 39 FOR U IN AND
WHAT IS ABOUT 1 AND 3M

WE HAVE SMALL IM - NEED HIGH AS
WELL .. AND NOTHING IN 3M SO...
THANK. YOU VERY MUCH!

1M WILL PUT 4.11 OK FOR U

GREAT THANK EEEEEEEEE MOM SORRY
SORRY JUST HIGH 6M... THE ONE
MONTH WE ACTUALLY NEED LOW,
EVEN THOUGH WE HAVE IT THE OTHER
WAY ROUND TODAY WE NEED IT LOW
TO PREPARE FOR THE FIXINGS IN AUG..
SO LOW 1M 3M DONT HAVE 6M HIGH
SO THAT WAS ALSO MY IDEA.. LOW IM
FOR U TALKED TO [London MMD Manager]
YESTERDAY.. WAS VERY SURPRICE
WHEN YOU TOLD ME HIOGH.. THAT IS

17

 
London MMD Euro Trader:

July 03, 2008: (emphasis added)
London MMD Manager:

 

Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Manager:
Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Manager:
Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Manager:

 

 

 

 

 

Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Manager:
Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Manager:
Frankfurt Regional Manager:
London MMD Manager:

 

 

FINE I CHEANGE IT TO 09 AS BEFORE ..
ALL OK NOW

GREAT THXS, SORRY FOR
MISSUNDERSTANDING, WAS JUST |
LOOKING ONLY AT TODAY'S FIXINGS...
THXS BIBIBI FN

[Frankfurt Regional Manager], I have a big
favor to ask you.

Tell me.

And, uh ... a big, big, big favor.
Ok.

Bon. In March ...

Yes.

We have, eh, we have 20 yards of a 6 month
fixing. [...] A lot in in March. So, basically,
um, basically, uh, we need high 6 month.
You need high 6 month, ok.

High 6 month, yes.

Sure, we will get high 6 month, no worries.
High.

We will get high 6 month.

Es... especially on the IMM, on the 19th I
have 7 yards.

September 26, 2008: (emphasis added)

London MMD Euro Trader 2:

Euribor Submitter:

London MMD Euro Trader 2:
Euribor Submitter:

London MMD Euro Trader 2:

Just to let you know, it would suit me very
much to have a high LIBOR tomorrow. So, I
don't know if you can put it high or not or
whatever it is, just to let you know, tomorrow it
suits me to have high 3s.

Umm. Yeh, there's one thing. We have to be
careful. Usually we quote below Euribor,
and right now we usually quote around 4 to 5
basis points below the expected Kuribor just
to show that we are on the better quality of
the range of the contributors,

I see ...

So that's why, right now, tf you look at our
quote compared to the other contributors...

I know, I've been noticing that, that's why I
thought I would ask you if there is there any
chance if you can put it up for me. I would
really appreciate that. Just for tomorrow, ok?

18

 
Euribor Submitter: My coworker here says something, maybe 21
is possible.

June 4, 2009:
Euribor Submitter: we will know until tom morning how the others
apply trichets comments in the market i think
for fixings it sounds like a non event

 

London MMD Manager: apart from lower Imth and higher 6m
pleaaaaaaaaaaaaase
Euribor Submitter: its likely that many contributors keep their rates
| unchanged :-) except for 1m and 6m of cause
-)

The Euribor submitters and the London MMD Manager also coordinated, at times, to
“push cash” in the market, or, in other words, make bids or offers in the market at rates other
than what they normally would have bid or offered. By this practice, the traders intended to
signal to other market participants (including other Euribor panel bank submitters) that market
prices were moving in a certain direction, The Deutsche Bank MMD traders and submitters
wanted the other banks’ Euribor submitters to factor these market moves into their Eurtbor
submissions, thereby increasing Deutsche Bank’s chances that the Euribor fixing would move in
the direction they desired.

The following are examples of the traders and the submitters openly discussing their
strategy of pushing cash in the market:

April 13, 2007: (to Yen Desk Manager) (emphasis added)
Frankfurt Euro Desk Manager: HI MATE, JUST FOR UR GUIDE. WE
TRY TO BID UP IN THE 3M TO PUSH

THE FIX A BIT.

June 21, 2007: (to London MMD Manager) (emphasis added)
Frankfurt Euro Desk Manager: WE CONTINUE TO OFFER IM CASH IN
THE MARKTE TO KEEP 1ME FIX ON
THE LOW SIDE,

b. Deutsche Bank’s Coordination with Other Euribor Panel Banks to
Manipulate Euribor

From at least 2005 through at least 2008, the London MMD Manager coordinated with
derivatives traders at other Euribor panel banks on several occasions in attempts to manipulate
the Euribor fixing. In addition to his regular internal requests to Deutsche Bank Euribor
submitters, the London MMD Manager also utilized his friendships and past working
relationships with derivatives traders at other Eurtbor panel banks to further his attempts to
manipulate Euribor. While he spoke daily to traders at several banks and other financial

19

 
institutions, he primarily coordinated with derivatives traders at Barclays”’ (“Barclays Senior
Euro Swaps Trader”) and at Euribor Bank A (“Euribor Bank A Swaps Trader”’”).

The London MMD Manager and these derivatives traders regularly exchanged
information about their derivatives trading positions and the Euribor fixing that they preferred to
benefit those positions. They agreed, at times, to transmit requests to their respective Euribor
submitters for Euribor submissions that would benefit their trading positions. They also
discussed reaching out to other Euribor panel banks to influence those banks’ Euribor
submissions in furtherance of their attempts to manipulate the Euribor fixings. When the
London MMD Manager was not available, he instructed the London MMD Euro Trader to
communicate his positions and Euribor preferences to at least the Barclays Senior Euro Trader or
his junior traders, and to the Deutsche Bank Euribor submitters.

The following are examples of the communications between the London MMD Manager
and the derivatives traders with whom he coordinated:

June 9, 2005: (emphasis added)
Bank A Euro Swaps Trader: Amigo checked with my FFT their 3m
euribor contribution which seems v low at
2.11 like ur FFT have u checked with yuoyr
guys???
London MMD Manager: will tell them from tomorrow to put a higher
fix..its way too low

 

 

September 29, 2005: (emphasis added)

 

 

 

 

London MMD Manager: DON'T FORGET TO SET A HIGH FIX
TODAY!
Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: I told them they're going to set it at 2.13
London MMD Manager: goodness! that's going to hurt
That same day:
London MMD Manager: DONT FORGET THIS HIGH 3M FIX FOR
THE FRA/EONIA SPREADS

 

*° On June 27, 2012, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c)

and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, As Amended, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions against Barclays, finding, among other things, that the London MMD Manager, identified in
the Barclays Order as Trader at Bank A, and a Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader coordinated in their
attempts to manipulate Euribor. See In re Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital Inc.,
CFTC Docket No. 12-25 (June 27, 2012), pp. 16-17; available at
http://www.cftc.gov/ucm/groups/public/@lrenforcementactions/documents/legalpleading/enfbarclaysorde
1062712. pdf.

“I Tn mid-2006, Euribor Bank A Swaps Trader moved to another Euribor panel bank. The London
MMD Manager continued to have regular discussions with him regarding their respective trading
positions, and, at times, made requests of each other for preferential Euribor submissions.

20

 
Bank A Euro Swaps Trader: we go for 18
London MMD Manager: hoping to go as high as that as well

 

 

September 11, 2006: (emphasis added)
London MMD Manager: in October, we'll set the fixings at the sky, or
that's not good for you?
Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: no, no, at the sky is good better for me

 

 

September 28, 2006: (emphasis added)

 

Bank B Euro Swaps Trader: mate how u positionned on 3mth fras at the
moment? u have interest in a high or low libors?
London MMD Manager: wud still love high rates mate, but i have to say

 

that i bought loads of them some six months
ago and sold back at high levels to our mutual
clients lets say on emonth ago... so, nothing
huge in my book for now... i reckon u' re in
the same position right?

Bank B Euro Swaps Trader: I need high libors in octobers and lower in
november WOULD LOVE IT... dou speak
to ur guys in frankfurter for the fixing? [.. .|

London MMD Manager: yes and to [Bank A Euro Swaps Trader] as
well - my fft will put a high fix all along
october. . can u speak to your cash guys if it

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

suits u ?
Bank B Euro Swaps Trader: will try, certainly
October 2, 2006:

Barclays Euro Swaps Trader: [London MMD Euro Trader], if it suits you as
well, could you ask your cash guys to put a high
6m fixing?

London MMD Manager: i will

Barclays Euro Swaps Trader: thanks a lot

December 29, 2006: (emphasis added)

Barclays Euro Swaps Trader: today we need a low 3 month fixing, could
you tell your guys as well if it suits you

London MMD Euro Trader: oh yes!!

January 18, 2007:
London MMD Manager: put the Imth low please

 

Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: ok

2]

 
March 15, 2007:
Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: put 90 for the fixing please

 

 

London MMD Manager: ok mate
Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: I want a basis at 5 max it will make up for my
losses

April 9, 2008: (emphasis added)
London MMD Manager: you're going to help me, promise me?????
Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: ahaah of course, mate, it looks like it wants to
move big time [. . .]
London MMD Manager: seriously mate, are you really helping
[London MMD Euro Trader]
Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: I'm going to help her big time

 

At times, the London MMD Manager and the derivatives traders at the other banks
attempted to manipulate Euribor to the benefit of their trading positions through the information
interdealer brokers provided to the market. They requested interdealer brokers to enter false
rates on the market screens the brokers provided to market participants in order to influence
market perception regarding prevailing cash rates. The traders believed that this could
potentially influence other banks’ Euribor submitters to make Euribor submissions that would
reflect these false rates, and, thereby, potentially move the Euribor fixing in a direction beneficial
to their respective trading positions,

The following are examples of the London MMD Manager’s discussions regarding
broker screens:

 

December 22, 2006:
Barclays Senior Euro Swaps Trader: tell [Broker 2] to raise the 6m mate important
London MMD Manager: yes yes

 

May 28, 2008: (telephone call to Barclays Euro Swaps Trader) (emphasis added)
London MMD Manager: Every day, every day I speak to my cash
desk, to the cash brokers. I say “You have to
raise the six month, you have to raise the six
month!”

January 28, 2009: (in telephone call to another Euro derivatives trader)
London MMD Manager: ... we are still working on the, on the brokers
so that... they, they re-steepen the curve.

 

Accordingly, throughout the relevant period, Deutsche Bank routinely made false reports
regarding Euribor in attempts to manipulate Euribor in order to benefit Deutsche Bank’s trading
positions. As such, Deutsche Bank’s Euribor submissions were not made in accordance with the
EBF’s definitions and criteria for Euribor submissions. At times, they were successful in their
attempted manipulations of Euribor.

22

 
6. Deutsche Bank’s False Reporting, Attempted Manipulation, and Manipulation
of Yen LIBOR, and Coordination with UBS Senior Yen Trader

During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank, through its submitters and traders, routinely
made false submissions in attempts to manipulate Yen LIBOR. From mid-2008 through mid-
2010, one Deutsche Bank derivatives trader also routinely coordinated with a derivatives trader
at UBS in their attempts to manipulate Yen LIBOR. The Yen LIBOR misconduct perpetrated by
the Deutsche Bank traders and submitters originated out of Deutsche Bank’s London office
primarily, and, on occasion, out of the Deutsche Tokyo Subsidiary. At times, Deutsche Bank was
successful in its attempts to manipulate Yen LIBOR.

a. Deutsche Bank’s Attempts to Manipulate Yen LIBOR in Order to Benefit
Internal Trading Positions,

During the relevant period, several London-based Deutsche Bank traders handled the
responsibility for making the bank’s Yen LIBOR submissions, including the manager of the Yen
and Euro Pool Trading Desk (“Yen Desk Manager’’) in London. Prior to mid-2008, the
submission process was handled by a senior Yen Pool trader (“Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter’)
with a junior trader (“Junior Yen LIBOR Submitter’) providing assistance.

The submitters on the Yen Pool Trading desk coordinated regularly with other Deutsche
Bank yen derivatives traders on MMD desks in London and, on occasion, with the Deutsche
Tokyo Subsidiary MMD traders, to make Yen LIBOR submissions that were beneficial to their
respective derivatives trading positions. One of the senior traders involved in making requests
on occasion was a manager in the Deutsche Tokyo Subsidiary (“Tokyo Regional Manager”).
One London-based MMD trader who made requests (“Senior Yen Trader-Submitter”) eventually
became the Yen LIBOR submitter in mid-2008, further entrenching the inherent conflict of
interest permitted by Deutsche Bank.”

Over the relevant period, the Deutsche Bank Yen LIBOR submitters regularly took into
account the oral or written requests by Deutsche Bank traders for beneficial Yen LIBOR
submissions. The submitters even openly solicited requests. Although the Yen Desk Manager
usually did not make Yen LIBOR submissions himself, he was aware of the open and pervasive
LIBOR requests being made by traders and the accommodation of those requests by the
submitters. On occasion, he received the traders’ requests and agreed to pass them along to the
submitters to ensure that the submissions matched the traders’ needs.

The submitters also consistently took their own trading positions into account when
making LIBOR submissions on behalf of the bank, even communicating with each other when
out of the office to ensure that the submissions were made in accordance with their trading
positions. They also coordinated with other MMD traders to ensure their respective trading
positions were not in conflict when making submissions to benefit those positions. As the Senior

 

* Although the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter formally reported to other supervisors, his daily MMD

reporting supervisor was the London MMD Manager throughout the relevant period; with respect to his
Yen LIBOR submission duties, he reported to the Yen Desk Manager.

23

 
Yen Trader-Submitter stated to another trader, “ON JPY WE TRY TO HAVE OUT LIBORS
WITH OUR POSITIONS NOT AGAINSJT].” This practice of making Yen LIBOR submissions
to benefit the various traders’ cash and derivatives trading positions persisted as responsibility
for making the submissions passed from Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter to Senior Yen Trader-
Submitter to, finally, in mid-2010, the Yen Desk Manager.

The following are examples of improper communications between Deutsche Bank Yen

LIBOR submitters and Yen traders:

June 27-28, 2006: (emphasis added)
senior Yen LIBOR Submitter:

Junior Yen LIBOR Submitter:

 

i will need high Im jpy tomorrow, and low on
thursday if u can have a look. i think 18.5
and 17.5 should work. thanks.

going in 0.19 in Imth today....ubs went in at 21
yday so should be fine.....

September 18, 2006: (email to Junior Yen LIBOR Submitter)

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

 

Hello Mate, Could you put 6m jpy libor at 48.5

- pls Imat36.5 3mat42 Thanks

September 29, 2006: (emphasis added)

Senior Yen Trader-Tokyo:

 

Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter:
Senior Yen Trader-Tokyo:

 

December 21, 2006: (emphasis added)

Tokyo Regional Manager:

Junior Yen LIBOR Submitter:

Tokyo Regional Manager:

 

Hi, [Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter]. [like to
have a lower 3&6 month Libor today.
[Senior Yen Trader-Tokyo]

OK NO PB

Tks vm, I don't like the spread between
Libor and the implied is too wide ... Good
day.

are you doing libors today, esp JPY or is
[Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter]?

shid be [Yen Desk Manager] setting, let him
know yr axes...i'll be inputting next week: if
need anything then mate...

[Senior Yen Trader-Tokyo] will BBG you
next week if he needs anything.. cheers mate

Follow-up instant message to Yen Desk Manager the same day:

Tokyo Regional Manager:

 

Yen Desk Manager:
Tokyo Regional Manager:

 

 

is [Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter] in or are you

doing JPY libors today?

[Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter] is doing it

he is not picking [Senior Yen Trader-Tokyo] up
.. could you ask him to go high in 1m and 6m?

24

 
August 31, 2007: (emphasis added)
senior Yen LIBOR Submitter: I don't have much in JPY fixings next week,
just need to keep 3m and 6m on the high side
I will try to send you levels will be on bbry if
anything thanks very much
Junior Yen LIBOR Submitter: Cool, cheers and enjoy your holiday mate

October 4, 2007: (emphasis added)

Tokyo Regional Manager: Morning Monsieur, couple of questions... -Do
you have a special axe re Libor settings at the
moment? I've noticed you tend to be on the
high side.. if you don't mind, lower fixings
would suit us better in general |... .|

Yen Desk Manager: Hi mate , the libors are set by [Senior Yen
LIBOR Submitter] as he got more exposure
on the fixing than in the cash book , I Il fwd
ur message to him

 

 

January 18, 2008: (emphasis added)

Tokyo Regional Manager: Hi [Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter], thanks very
much for FRA trades you've done for us...
another favour to ask: could we get low 1m and
high 3m fixing today? thanks!

 

 

 

Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter: i will try
Follow-up message sent later that day: |
Tokyo Regional Manager: why did you go in low 3m fixing? we had 17
trillion [yen] so it coming lower cost us a lot
Senior Yen LIBOR Submitter: sorry I messed up that one, i thought i had
left 91
Tokyo Regional Manager: you owe me a drink!

 

b. Deutsche Bank’s Coordination with the UBS Senior Yen Trader to
Manipulate Yen LIBOR

From mid-2008 through mid-2010, the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter coordinated with a
senior yen derivatives trader at a subsidiary of UBS AG (“UBS Senior Yen Trader”) regarding
Yen LIBOR submissions.”’> The Senior Yen Trader-Submitter communicated regularly with the
UBS Senior Yen Trader, discussing the market and their relative trading positions, and,
eventually, discussing beneficial Yen LIBOR submissions. The Senior Yen Trader-Submitter
knew the UBS Senior Yen Trader to be highly active and successful, one who provided liquidity
and movement to the Yen derivatives market. When the UBS Senior Yen Trader began to
request his assistance in making Deutsche Bank’s Yen LIBOR submissions in a manner to

 

* In the Commission’s Order against UBS, Deutsche Bank’s Senior Yen Trader-Submitter is identified

in the Order as the Yen Bank F Trader-Submitter.

25

 
benefit his trading, the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter readily accommodated him. The Senior
Yen Trader-Submitter knew his control over the bank’s Yen LIBOR submissions enabled him to
make submissions to benefit his and the UBS Senior Yen Trader’s derivatives trading positions.
The UBS Senior Yen Trader also offered to assist the Deutsche Bank submitter by having his
submitters make submissions that would benefit the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter. The traders at
times aligned their trading positions so they could each equally benefit from the altered Yen
LIBOR submissions made by both banks.”

The following are examples of the coordination of their attempts to manipulate Yen
LIBOR:

August 28, 2008: (emphasis added)
UBS Senior Yen Trader: look i appreciate the business and the calls we
should try to share info where possible also
let me know if you need fixes one way or the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: sure sorry mate have to go too busy on many
things

UBS Senior Yen Trader: and i'll do the same if you have any joy with
your setters

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: no prob

September 1, 2008:

senior Yen Trader-Submitter: [.. .] but going to put high libors today

UBS Senior Yen Trader: sure i think you guys are top in 1m anyways

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: iam mate need it high!

September 18, 2008: (emphasis added)

UBS Senior Yen Trader: you got any ax on 6m fix tonight?

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: absoluetly none but ican help

UBS Senior Yen Trader: can you set low as a favour for me?

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: done

UBS Senior Yen Trader: ill return favour whenican just ask have
75mm jpy abp tonight

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: np

UBS Senior Yen Trader: thanks so much

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: [...] 73/90/99 am putting libors

UBS Senior Yen Trader: ereat thanks mate

 

 

** When aligning their positions, they also often discussed Euroyen TIBOR, or the Tokyo Interbank

Offered Rate, a Tokyo-based rate similar to LIBOR. Some of their derivatives trading positions were tied
to this rate. Both Deutsche Bank and UBS were banks who made submissions for this rate. On a few
occasions, the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter and the UBS Senior Yen Trader discussed trying to have
their respective submitters alter their TIBOR submissions to benefit their trading positions. The Senior
Yen Trader-Submitter even attempted internally on a handful of occasions, once at the behest of the UBS
Senior Yen Trader, to contact the Deutsche Bank TIBOR submitter. He was unsuccessful in his attempts.

26

 
In a follow-up message the next day, the UBS Senior Yen Trader offered the Senior Yen
Trader-Submitter a deal, stating, “in fact cause you helped me on 6m yday.”

May 21, 2009: (emphasis added)

UBS Senior Yen Trader: cld you do me a favour would you mind
moving you 6m libor up a bit today, i have a
gigantic fix iam limit short can't sell
anymore just watch

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: ican do that
UBS Senior Yen Trader: thx
Follow-up message the next day:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: u happy with me yesterday?
UBS Senior Yen Trader: thx i don't see it going up again today
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: me too
UBS Senior Yen Trader: only you and [Yen Panel Bank A] moved

 

In the summer of 2009, the UBS Senior Yen Trader began extended campaigns to
manipulate the six-month tenor of Yen LIBOR to benefit massive trading positions he held tied
to one-, three-, and six-month Yen LIBOR. His plan first required moving the six-month Yen
LIBOR fixing higher by the fixing date at the end of June, and then, second, to keep it high
through July. Finally, he wanted the six-month Yen LIBOR fixing to drop dramatically by mid-
August. To assist him, the Deutsche Bank Senior Yen Trader-Submitter became an active and
necessary participant in his plan. The UBS Senior Yen Trader also offered to enter into trades at
rates detrimental to him but beneficial to the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter to ensure the Senior
Yen Trader-Submitter’s involvement in his plans and to entice him to make Deutsche Bank’s
Yen LIBOR submissions in the manner he desired. The Senior Yen Trader-Submitter readily
accepted those trades and made the submissions as requested by the UBS Senior Yen Trader; at
times, he would ask the next day whether the UBS Senior Yen Trader was pleased with his
efforts.

The following are examples of their specific coordination to manipulate Yen LIBOR over
the summer of 2009:

June 15, 2009:
UBS Senior Yen Trader: is there any chance you cld set a high 6m
tonight, just tonight, i have 1..5m usd bp fix no
worries if you can't god knows where that all

 

came from

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: hum i think my libors will be unch for a while
now....my led is quite high andido not want
3m libor up

UBS Senior Yen Trader: me neither ineedlow3m no probustnd you

 

will help me out when 6m goes over the turn
tho? ihave 1m usd a bp that day too

27

 
June 26, 2009: (emphasis added)

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

 

[...]
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

 

[...]
UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

 

UBS Senior Yen Trader:

[.-.]

UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

 

 

[.. J
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

UBS Senior Yen Trader:

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

[...]

UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

 

 

 

Hello big boy

hi

is there a date u see we could have 6m libor ot is
no point being stubborn in that direction an i do
sthing else sorry 6m lower hopeviuosly no for
teh next 3 weeks

basically i will help you in 2 weeks time iam
the saem way

perfect

but for the next 2weeks i really really need
you to put 6m higfher

after that i need 6m to crash off like you
that is no problem for me, i do nothing with
the cash guys until then

i need you to move 6m up for 2 weeks mate

but please move 6m up on Monday

understood

thx ineed you in the panel on Monday

ok enough cheers

i will then get our 6m way down after july 18th
itis... and will try to get everyone else down
too

only reason i on bid is i have huge huge position
that way so am happy for to come lower after
the 17"

ok enough enough on my fra switch it is
your best?

tell me what you need to see_ i have a vested
interest in making sure our fixings match
just don't rip me off too much 1 had those
round mid i got to go soon

ok -1.5 and -1 am i asking too much?

thats fine

pls make sure you put the 6m up for me thx
oof enough enough

ok i'll shut up now

of course

28

 
June 29, 2009: (emphasis added)
UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

July 21, 2009: (emphasis added)
UBS Senior Yen Trader:
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

 

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

UBS Senior Yen Trader:

[.. |

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

 

UBS Senior Yen Trader:
senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

 

July 23, 2009: (emphasis added)
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
UBS Senior Yen Trader:

 

pls remember 6m today...

yah no wotries...6m libor today good contrib?
high pls as high as you can manage we are
going 75 anyway whatever you can do thx
sure np...

i been asked to reduce risk a bit

ok

i still going for lower 6m next month but
position is huge if you want to do some ly IA
1 wld help me on risk limits obviously i am
still very much paid and need a low 6m from
next week [...|

does not suit me taht much today need high
6m libor today.....

same how about we do Ov6 spot as well ? so
no fix today ijust need to keep the risk guys at
bay 200b ly will bring me in limit i will pay
you .665 for Ov6é today in same amount to
knock the fix out if you need i think it does
nothing today the fix thatis wld be a massive
favour

can i do 200 and lower my 6m quote? oor we
cross fra up to you mate

rahter just cross the fra pls

that is fair ok we done

thanks

ok we need to cordinarte the 6m drop when
do you need it falling?

whenever

ok we need aug 11th you are back by then?
if you need earlier let me know i am going to
be away the whole of august almost if you
need anything i am in london and zurich offices
oon blackberry (@ubs.com will
be pushinh lower 6m from aug 11th

back on the 10th in Idn

ok well lets sort 6m out from 11th will make
a massive push

29

 
The Senior Yen Trader-Submitter continued to coordinate with the UBS Senior Yen
Trader regarding beneficial Yen LIBOR submissions into mid-2010, even after the UBS Senior
Yen Trader left UBS for another Yen panel bank. At this point, however, the Senior Yen Trader-
Submitter was no longer responsible for Deutsche Bank’s Yen LIBOR submissions.

Accordingly, throughout the relevant period, Deutsche Bank routinely made false reports
regarding Yen LIBOR and attempted to manipulate Yen LIBOR in order to benefit Deutsche
Bank’s trading positions. As such, Deutsche Bank’s Yen LIBOR submissions were not made in
accordance with the BBA definitions and criteria for LIBOR submissions. At times, they were
successful in their attempted manipulations of Yen LIBOR.

7. Deutsche Bank’s False Reporting, Attempted Manipulation, and Manipulation of
Sterling LIBOR

During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank, through its submitters and traders, routinely
made false LIBOR submissions in furtherance of their attempts to manipulate Sterling LIBOR.
At times, they were successful in their attempts. The head of Deutsche Bank’s Sterling Pool
Trading desk in London (“Sterling Desk Manager”) and another trader assigned to the desk
(“Sterling LIBOR Submitter”). were responsible for submitting Deutsche Bank’s Sterling LIBOR
submissions. Both traders maintained the desk’s trading book which included proprietary
derivatives trading positions. The secondary Sterling trader, acting as the primary Sterling
LIBOR submitter, communicated regularly, often daily, with the Sterling Desk Manager
regarding the trading positions held in the Sterling Pool trading book.

Throughout the relevant period, Deutsche Bank’s Sterling Desk Manager and the Sterling
submitter routinely took their LIBOR-based trading positions into account when determining the
bank’s Sterling LIBOR submissions, and, accordingly, made false Sterling LIBOR contributions
routinely in order to benefit those positions, On occasion, the Sterling Desk Manager and
Sterling submitter received preferential requests from at least one Sterling MMD derivatives
trader which they, at times, accommodated when making Deutsche Bank’s LIBOR submissions.
Throughout the relevant period, Deutsche Bank’s Sterling LIBOR submissions were routinely
skewed in order to benefit the Deutsche Bank’s Sterling LIBOR derivatives trading positions.
The following are examples of communications between the Sterling Desk Manager and Sterling
submitter, and the requests from the Sterling MMD trader:

December 5, 2006: (to Sterling Desk Manager) (emphasis added)
Senior MMD Sterling Trader: HI MATE IF WE COULD GO FOR A 28
ON 3S LIBOR TODAY THAT WOULD BE
GREAT

 

August 8, 2007: (email to Sterling Desk Manager)
Senior MMD Sterling Trader: LET US KNOW WHEN YOU DO LIBORS.
NEED LOW 18 LOW3

a

 

30

 
February 18, 2008:

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

 

Sterling Desk Manager:

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

Sterling Desk Manager:
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

 

Sterling Desk Manager:

[+]

Sterling Desk Manager:

 

 

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:
Sterling Desk Manager:
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:
Sterling Desk Manager:

 

 

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

 

August 1, 2008: (emphasis added)

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

Sterling Desk Manager:
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

 

January 28, 2009: (emphasis added)

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

 

Sterling Desk Manager:

 

Yeah. [Unintelligible] It’s very cold here so it
must be very cold where you are.

It’s really cold but there is sunshine, so it’s quite
nice.

It’s cold but there is a beautiful blue sky.
Lovely. Perfect conditions mate. Listen, ve
got your message here, Obviously, if these
markets rally, you just want to get out some of
the March, don’t you front March?

Yeah. What message did I leave there?
|Unintelligible] |... |]. Six month, one year
[unintelligible] on the rally. I’m assuming you
are long six [unintelligible] in March now
[unintelligible] three or four ticks we just get out
of it.

We'll get out of some of it yeah.

Okay at three months. Three months LIBOR
was 63 or 64.

65,65. Yeah yeah yeah.

Yeah.

Oh yeah I'l put that up a bit yeah yeah yeah

So you’ve got to do that. We’ve also, we’ve got
week going out, so put that higher.

All right, yeah. [...]

[...]| Um, we’ve got the two fixings up today,
we we need a high LIBOR in the ones. Gota
yard...

Yeah

... going out so we need a high uh high
LIBOR in the ones and we’d need a low
screen on the threes. I’ve got it at forty base
points the LIBOR’s coming in at like seventy-
eight and I’ve I’ve moved our screen to like
thirty-eight so ’ve got to modify that ticket at
eleven yeah?

Tomorrow we got the 1.3 billion that will be
going out so you' Il want to leave that one
month at one sixty, which you put the LIBOR
is.

Yeah

31

 
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

Sterling Desk Manager:
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:
Sterling Desk Manager:
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

 

 

Sterling Desk Manager:
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:
Sterling Desk Manager:

 

August 31, 2010: (emphasis added)

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

 

Sterling Desk Manager:
Sterling LIBOR Submitter:

Sterling Desk Manager:
[...]

Sterling LIBOR Submitter:
Sterling Desk Manager:

 

 

Umm, other than that, you want, you want
the three months low again didn't you? Oh
that, that spread is eighty... ah, probably eighty
eight and a half, eighty five at the moment.

Oh is it?

Yeah, that's what the last I heard.

Fine

Yeah, um, ni, ninety eight, six five, eighty eight
and a half [unintelligible]...

Yeah

..cighty, eighty-five bids [unintelligible]...

I'm a, I'm a, I'm happy with that.

[Senior MMD Sterling Trader’s] come over,
he wants 3s [unintelligible] libor down a tick
[unintelligible]

No, no, no, no, no.

No, he’s got a fixing, he said. I said we’ve got
stuff about the 15" of September. We need
higher libors, don’t we.

Yeah

But you need it, we need 3s to go to 76 and 77.
Yeah, I want it higher libor.

Accordingly, throughout the relevant period, Deutsche Bank routinely made false reports
regarding Sterling LIBOR in attempts to manipulate Sterling LIBOR in order to benefit Deutsche
Bank’s trading positions. As such, Deutsche Bank’s Sterling LIBOR submissions were not made
in accordance with the BBA definitions and criteria for LIBOR submissions. At times, they
were successful in their attempted manipulations of Sterling LIBOR.

8. Deutsche Bank’s False Reporting, Attempted Manipulation, and Manipulation
of Swiss Franc LIBOR

During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank, through its submitters and traders, routinely
made false submissions for Swiss Franc LIBOR in furtherance of its attempts to manipulate
Swiss Franc LIBOR. At times, they were successful in their attempts to manipulate Swiss Franc
LIBOR.

Deutsche Bank’s Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions were made by the Deutsche Bank
Non-Euro Pool Trading desk based in Frankfurt. The primary Swiss Franc LIBOR submitter

changed over the relevant period, one of whom was the Non-Euro Desk Manager.

Over the relevant period into 2010, one Swiss Franc Pool trader (Swiss Franc
Submitter 1) received from Deutsche Bank MMD derivatives traders in London, including the

32

 
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter, regular requests for preferential Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions
to benefit their derivatives trading positions. The Swiss Franc Submitter 1 routinely obliged
these trader requests and at times proactively reached out to the derivatives traders to ask
whether they had requests for that day’s LIBOR submission. When the Swiss Franc Submitter |
was unavailable, the Non-Euro Desk Manager also adjusted Deutsche Bank’s Swiss Franc
LIBOR submissions to benefit the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter derivatives trading positions,

The Swiss Franc Submitter 1 was methodical in determining how submissions might
affect the Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions. During a telephone discussion between the Swiss
Franc Submitter 1 and the Senior Yen Trader-Submitter on August 19, 2009, the Swiss Franc
Submitter 1 explained that he maintained a spreadsheet in which he used a “LIBOR contribution
simulation” to determine how a particular Deutsche Bank Swiss Franc LIBOR submission would
affect the Swiss Franc LIBOR fixing.

Examples of requests from the traders to the Swiss Franc Submitter 1 and the Non-Euro
Desk Manager are as follows:

March 26, 2007:
London MMD Swiss Franc Trader 1: hello sir, welcome back, you missed nothing,
not sure if matches with you but my int is for a
lower fixing, thanks

 

 

Swiss Franc Submitter 1: HI [London MMD Swiss France Trader 1],
NOTED N LET U KNOW.....NO PROBL
CIAOOO

September 17, 2007: (emphasis added)
Swiss Franc Submitter 1: LET ME KNOW ON THE FIXINGS IN
CASE U NEED SOMETHG SPECIAL
London MMD Swiss Frane Trader 1: 1 have been trying to run as little as possible in
the tn (as it was just costing me money)...
another nice low 3m tom would be nice

 

 

September 25, 2008: (emphasis added)

 

 

 

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: can you put a high 3m please?
Swiss Franc Submitter 1: sure 83?
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: many thanks really need low 1 month today .
. just for today...
Swiss Franc Submitter 1: wud do 61 if u agree... . problem is not to
quote too low to be deleted in the calculation
process

November 28, 2008: (emphasis added)

 

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter: can we leave 1m unchanged tuesday? sorry
until tuesday also will check dbqf sorry about
that...

33

 
Swiss France Submitter 1:

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

 

December 3, 2008:
Swiss Franc Submitter 1:

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:

Swiss Franc Submitter 1:

 

July 2, 2009: (emphasis added)
Non-Euro Desk Manager:

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
Non-Euro Desk Manager:

March 10, 2010: (emphasis added)
Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
Swiss Franc Submitter 1:

Senior Yen Trader-Submitter:
Swiss Franc Submitter 1:

 

sure no probl will quote unchgd 1.00 for 1,2
and 3 mths if ok
many Thanks

morning mate.....do u still need high 1m fix,
rite?

Hi [Swiss Franc Submitter 1] no gig axe all
out

ok gr8 in that case i will lower our quote

Hi morning mate! Do you have any special
requests for the libor?

keep 1m, 3m and 6m where they are please
ok will be done mate

what ahppened withyour 6m libor
Shu... did u have a refix?

no not today back to 1 please

sure will take care tom

Later in mid-2010, the Swiss Franc Submitter 2 became responsible for Deutsche Bank’s
Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions. The Swiss Franc Submitter 2 often reached out to traders to
inform them of the bank’s intended Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions to determine whether there
any preferential rates needed by the derivatives traders. On occasion, the Swiss Franc
Submitter 2 received specific requests from MMD traders and skewed submissions to benefit
their trading positions. The Swiss Franc Submitter 2 continued this LIBOR. submission practice
until early 2011, more than a year after the start of the bank’s internal LIBOR investigation.
Examples of these communications are as follows:

September 9, 2010:

London MMD Swiss Franc Trader 2: Hi [Swiss Franc Submitter 2], good day to you.

Swiss Franc Submitter 2:

just to let you know if you can help..well or at
least dont kill on that one pls. Got quite big
fixings today: I am for: Lower fix in 1m higher
fix in 3m lower fix in6mtxs same tomorrow
in 6s3s and reverse monday...the beauty of
stupid mismatches

only helps you if relative to each other, right? 1
actually think a higher 3m fixing relative to 1m
and 6m would perfectly reflect market
movements today, should be no problem :-)

London MMD Swiss Franc Trader 2: i like your thinking! tks

34

 
Swiss Franc Submitter 2: won't have any effect though I'm just realizing.
my fixings are among the highest, they are not
counting into the average right now anyway

London MMD Swiss Franc Trader 2: haha, ok

Swiss Franc Submitter 2: sorry. I'm long :-)

 

 

September 22, 2010: (email to several Pool and MMD traders)
Swiss Franc Submitter 2: hi! libors unchanged today.

 

October 4, 2010:

London MMD Swiss Franc Trader 2: hello hello, so have u sorted when u coming
around? also, we re not the highest in fixings
anymore, do you think you could increase your
3m slightly from tomorrow on if suits
obviously.,,.bloody cs moved lower today and 1
m paid for the next 3 weeks or so

April 18, 2011: (email to several Pool and MMD traders)
Swiss Franc Submitter 2: hihi, chf libors unchanged please.

 

Accordingly, throughout the relevant period, Deutsche Bank routinely made false reports
regarding Swiss Franc LIBOR in attempts to manipulate Swiss Franc LIBOR in order to benefit
Deutsche Bank’s trading positions. As such, Deutsche Bank’s Swiss Franc LIBOR submissions
were not made in accordance with the BBA definitions and criteria for LIBOR submissions. At
times, they were successful in their attempted manipulations of Swiss Franc LIBOR.

ORR a oo a oe

As described above, Deutsche Bank made repeated and regular attempts to manipulate
U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor in order to affect the official
fixings of LIBOR and Euribor in a manner that would benefit its cash and derivatives trading
positions. Deutsche Bank, through its derivatives traders and submitters, knew it was improper
to consider derivatives trading positions in determining the bank’s LIBOR and Euribor
submissions, A bank’s derivatives trading positions are not legitimate or permissible factors on
which to base a bank’s daily LIBOR or Euribor submissions. By basing its LIBOR and Euribor
submissions on rates that benefited Deutsche Bank’s derivatives trading positions, Deutsche
Bank’s submissions were not made in accordance with the definitions and criteria for LIBOR
and Euribor submissions. Instead, Deutsche Bank knowingly conveyed false, misleading, or
knowingly inaccurate reports that its submitted rates for LIBOR and Euribor were based on and
solely reflected its assessment of the costs of borrowing unsecured funds in the relevant
interbank money markets. Accordingly, Deutsche Bank regularly attempted to manipulate the
official fixings for U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor, and
knowingly delivered false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate reports concerning U.S. Dollar,
Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor, which are commodities in interstate
commerce.

35

 
IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Deutsche Bank Made False, Misleading, or Knowingly Inaccurate Reports
Concerning the Costs of Borrowing Unsecured Funds in Violation of Section 9(a){2)
of the Act

Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes it unlawful for any person “knowingly to deliver or
cause to be delivered for transmission through the mails or interstate commerce by telegraph,
telephone, wireless, or other means of communication false or misleading or knowingly
inaccurate reports concerning crop or market information or conditions that affect or tend to
affect the price of any commodity.in interstate commerce... .” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2006);
United States v. Brooks, 681 F.3d 678, 691 (Sth Cir. 2012); United States v. Valencia, 394 F.3d
352, 354-355 (Sth Cir. 2004); see also CFTC y. Johnson, 408 F. Supp. 2d 259, 267 (S.D. Tex.
2005),

On a daily basis, Deutsche Bank knowingly delivered or caused to be delivered its U.S.
Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor submissions through the mails or
interstate commerce by transmitting its submissions electronically to the service provider of the
BBA and EBF, who calculates their official fixings (7.e., Thomson Reuters), Deutsche Bank’s
submissions were also caused to be delivered through the mails or interstate commerce through
the daily dissemination and publication globally, including into the United States, of the panel
banks’ submissions, as well as the daily official benchmark interest rates, by at least Thomson
Reuters on behalf of the BBA and EBF, and by other third party vendors. The panel banks’
submissions are used to determine the official published rates for LIBOR and Euribor, which are
calculated based on a trimmed average of the submissions. Deutsche Bank’s daily LIBOR and
Euribor submissions contained market information concerning the costs of borrowing unsecured
funds in particular currencies and tenors, the liquidity conditions and stress in the money
markets, and Deutsche Bank’s ability to borrow funds in the particular markets, Such market
information affects or tends to affect the prices of commodities in interstate commerce, including
the daily rates at which U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor are
fixed,

During the relevant period, Deutsche Bank’s submissions for U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling,
and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor were false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate because
they were based in whole or in part on impermissible and illegitimate factors, specifically
Deutsche Bank’s cash and derivatives trading positions. By using these impermissible and
illegitimate factors in making its LIBOR and Euribor submissions, Deutsche Bank conveyed
false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate information that the rates it submitted were based on
and related solely to the costs of borrowing unsecured funds in the relevant interbank markets,
and were truthful and reliable. Moreover, certain of Deutsche Bank’s traders, submitters, and

 

*5 LIBOR and Euribor as benchmark interest rates are commodities under the Act. See Sections 1a(4)

and 1a(13) of the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 1a(4) and 1a(13) (2006) (pre-Dodd Frank) and Sections 1a(9) and
la(19) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 1a(9) and La(19) (2012) (post-Dodd Frank).

36

 
managers, including a senior manager, knew that Deutsche Bank’s U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling,
and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor submissions contained false, misleading and knowingly
inaccurate information concerning the submitted rates. By such conduct, Respondent violated
Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2006).

B. Deutsche Bank Manipulated U.S. Dollar LIBOR, Euribor, Yen LIBOR, Sterling
LIBOR, and Swiss France LIBOR at Times for Certain Tenors

Together, Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act prohibit acts of manipulation or
attempted manipulation. Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes it unlawful for “[a]ny person to
manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for
future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity... .” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2)
(2006). Section 6(c) of the Act authorizes the Commission to serve a complaint and provide for
the imposition of, among other things, civil monetary penalties and cease and desist orders if the
Commission “has reason to believe that any person... is manipulating or attempting to
manipulate or has manipulated or attempted to manipulate the market price of any commodity, in
interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, . . .
or otherwise is violating or has violated any of the provisions of [the] Act... .” 7 U.S.C. §9
(2006). Section 6(d) of the Act is substantially identical to Section 6(c). See 7 U.S.C. § 13b
(2006).

Manipulation under the Act is the “intentional exaction of a price determined by forces
other than supply or demand.” Frey v. CFTC, 931 F.2d 1171, 1175 (7th Cir. 1991), The
following four elements must be met, by a preponderance of the evidence, to show a successful
manipulation has occurred:

(1) the [respondent] had the ability to influence market prices;
(2) the [respondent] specifically intended to do so;

(3) artificial prices existed; and

(4) the [respondent] caused an artificial price.

Inre Cox, [1986-1987 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L, Rep, (CCH) 4 23,786, at 34,061
(CFTC July 15, 1987). The test for manipulation, however, is a practical one:

We think the test of manipulation must largely be a practical one if the
purposes of the Commodity Exchange Act are to be accomplished. The
methods and techniques of manipulation are limited only the ingenuity of
man. The aim must be therefore to discover whether conduct has been
intentionally engaged in which has resulted in a price which does not
reflect basic forces of supply and demand.

Cargill v. Hardin, 452 F.2d 1154, 1163 (8th Cir. 1971).
‘“[I|ntent is the essence of manipulation.” Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperative Ass’n, Inc.,

[1982-1984 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep (CCH) 4 21,796, at 27,282 (CFTC Dec. 17,
1982). The manipulator’s intent separates “lawful business conduct from unlawful manipulative

37

 
activity.” /d. at 27,283. To prove the intent element of manipulation, it must be shown that
Deutsche Bank “acted (or failed to act) with the purpose or conscious object of causing or
effecting a price or price trend in the market that did not reflect the legitimate forces of supply
and demand.” Id.

The Commission has observed that “intent must of necessity be inferred from the
objective facts and may, of course, be inferred by a person’s actions and the totality of the
circumstances.” Jn re Hohenberg Bros., [1975-1977 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep.
(CCH) 4 20,271, at 21,477 (CFTC Feb. 18, 1977). “[O]nce it is demonstrated that the alleged
manipulator sought, by act or omission, to move the market away from the equilibrium or
efficient price — the price which reflects market forces of supply and demand — the mental
element of manipulation may be inferred.” Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperative Ass’n, Inc.,
[1982-1984 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep (CCH) at 27,283. “It is enough to present
evidence from which it may reasonably be inferred that the accused ‘consciously desire[d] that
result, whatever the likelihood of that result happening from his conduct.’” Jd. (quoting United
States yv. United States Gypsum Co., 438 U.S. 442, 445 (1978)). A profit motive may also be
evidence of intent, although profit motive is not a necessary element of an attempted
manipulation. See In re DiPlacido, [2007-2009 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4
30,970, at 62,484 (CFTC Nov. 5, 2008) (citing In re Hohenberg Bros, Co., Comm. Fut. L. Rep.
(CCH) { 20,271, at 21,478)), aff'd, 364 Fed. Appx. 657, No. 08-5559-ag, 2009 WL 3326624 (2d
Cir, 2009),

An artificial price (also termed a “distorted” price) is one “that does not reflect market or
economic forces of supply and demand.” Jn re Cox, [1986-1987 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L.
Rep. (CCH) at 34,064; Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperative Ass'n, Inc., [1982-1984 Transfer
Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep (CCH) at 27,288 n. 2. As the Commission noted with approval in
DiPlacido, { 30,970, at 62,484 (quoting Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperative Ass'n, Inc., [1982-
1984 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep (CCH) at 27,300 (Commissioner Stone concutring)),
a Commissioner has commented: “[t]his is more an axiom than a test.” In determining whether
an artificial price has occurred:

[O|ne must look at the aggregate forces of supply and demand and search
for those factors which are extraneous to the pricing system, are not a
legitimate part of the economic pricing of the commodity, or are extrinsic
to that commodity market. When the aggregate forces of supply and
demand bearing down on a particular market are all legitimate, it follows
that the price will not be artificial. On the other hand when a price is
effected by a factor which is not legitimate, the resulting price is
necessarily artificial. Thus, the focus should not be as much on the
ultimate price as on the nature of the factors causing it.

Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperative Ass’n, Inc., [1982-1984 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep
(CCH) at 27,288 n.2. See also In re DiPlacido, [2007-2009 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L.
Rep. (CCH) at 62,484 (finding that the placement of uneconomic bids or offers results in
artificial prices because those prices are not determined by the free forces of supply and demand
on the exchange).

38

 
Causation of artificial prices is established when it is demonstrated that artificial market
prices resulted from the conduct of a trader, or group of traders acting in concert, rather than
legitimate forces of supply and demand. See Cargill, Inc. v. Hardin, 452 F.2d 1154, 1171-72
(8th Cir. 1971) (price squeeze “intentionally brought about and exploited by Cargill”); In re Cox,
[1986-1987 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) at 34,067 (proof of causation requires
the Division to show that “the respondents’ conduct ‘resulted in’ artificial prices”).

There can be multiple causes of an artificial price. In re DiPlacido, [2007-2009 Transfer
Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) at 62,485. The manipulator’s actions need not be the sole
cause of the artificial price. “It is enough for purposes of a finding of manipulation in violation
of Sections 6(b) and 9 of the Act that respondents’ action contributed to the price [movement].”
In re Kosuga, 19 A.D. 603, 624 (1960); see also In re Cox, [1986-1987 Transfer Binder] Comm,
Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) at 34,066 (recognizing there can be multiple causes of an artificial price and
holding that a charge of manipulation can be sustained where respondents’ acts are a proximate
cause of the artificial price).

Here, as a member of the BBA’s U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR
panels and the Euribor panel, Deutsche Bank made daily submissions that purported to reflect its
assessments of the costs of borrowing unsecured funds in the relevant interbank markets for U.S.
Dollar, Yen, Sterling, Swiss Franc, and Euro across tenors. The official LIBOR and Euribor
fixings are calculated using a trimmed average methodology applied to the rates submitted by the
panel banks. By virtue of this methodology, Deutsche Bank had the ability to influence or affect
the rates that would become the official fixings for U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss Franc
LIBOR and Euribor for any tenor.

As evidenced by the extensive communications and other facts set forth above, in making
the false LIBOR and Euribor submissions, more than two dozen Deutsche Bank traders,
submitters, and managers specifically intended to affect the daily U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and
Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor for certain tenors, including one-month, three-month, and six-
month. Their intent is also made clear by the evidence that the derivatives traders and
submitters’ motives were to benefit Deutsche Bank’s derivatives and at times cash trading
positions, or, at times, the derivatives trading positions of other panel banks with whom certain
Deutsche Bank derivatives traders coordinated.

On certain occasions, Deutsche Bank’s false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate
LIBOR and Euribor submissions were illegitimate factors in the pricing of the daily LIBOR and
Euribor fixings and affected the official LIBOR and Euribor for certain tenors, resulting in
artificial LIBOR and Euribor fixings. Thus, Deutsche Bank’s actions were a proximate cause of
the artificial LIBOR and Euribor fixings.

Accordingly, at times, Deutsche Bank manipulated certain tenors of U.S. Dollar, Yen,
Sterling, and Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euribor, commodities in interstate commerce, in violation
of Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act.

39

 
C. Deutsche Bank Attempted to Manipulate U.S. Dollar, Yen, Sterling, and Swiss
Franc LIBOR and Euribor

To prove attempted manipulation, two elements are required: (1) an intent to affect the
market price; and (2) an overt act in furtherance of that intent. See Jn re Hohenberg Bros. Co.,
[1975-77 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4 20,271, at 21,477 (CFTC Feb. 18,
1977); CFTC y. Bradley, 408 F. Supp. 2d 1214, 1220 (N.D. Okla. 2005). The intent standard is
the same as that for manipulation. See Indiana Farm Bureau and Hohenberg Bros., supra.

As found above, more than two dozen Deutsche Bank derivatives traders, submitters, and
managers specifically intended to affect the rate at which the daily LIBOR for U.S. Dollar, Yen,
Sterling, and Swiss Franc and the daily Euribor would be fixed to benefit Deutsche Bank’s
derivatives trading and, at times, money market positions, or, in the case of Euribor and Yen
LIBOR, to benefit the derivatives trading positions of traders at other banks with whom certain
Deutsche Bank traders coordinated. The Deutsche Bank derivatives traders’ requests for
beneficial LIBOR and Euribor submissions and the Deutsche Bank submitters making
submissions based on those requests, or making submissions to benefit their own derivatives
trading positions, constitute overt acts in furtherance of their intent to affect the fixings of
LIBOR for various currencies and the fixings of Euribor. By doing so, Deutsche Bank engaged
in repeated acts of attempted manipulation in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2) (2006).

D. Deutsche Bank Aided and Abetted the Attempts of Traders at Other Banks to
Manipulate Yen LIBOR and Euribor

Pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Act, Deutsche Bank aided and abetted the attempts of
traders at other banks to manipulate Yen LIBOR and Euribor in violation of the Act. 7 U.S.C,
§ 13c(a) (2006), Liability as an aider and abettor requires proof that: (1) the Act was violated;
(2) the aider and abettor had knowledge of the wrongdoing underlying the violation; and (3) the
aider and abettor intentionally assisted the primary wrongdoer. See In re Nikkhah, [1999-2000
Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) f 28,129, at 49,888 n.28 (CFTC May 12, 2000).
Although actual knowledge of the primary wrongdoer’s conduct is required, knowledge of the
unlawfulness of such conduct need not be demonstrated. See Jn re Lincolnwood Commodities,
Inc., [1982-1984 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4 21,986, at 28,255 (CFTC Jan.
31, 1984). Knowing assistance can be inferred from the surrounding facts and circumstances.
Id.

As evidenced by the communications set forth above, Deutsche Bank’s Senior Yen
Trader-Submitter and London MMD Manager and derivatives traders at other panel banks
coordinated on several occasions about Yen LIBOR and Euribor submissions that would benefit
their banks’ respective cash and derivatives trading positions. At times, the traders at the other
panel banks asked Deutsche Bank traders to submit a certain rate, or submit a rate in a direction
higher or lower, that would benefit the cash and derivatives trading positions of the traders at the
other panel banks. The Deutsche Bank Senior Yen Trader-Submitter agreed and submitted the
requested preferential rates for Yen LIBOR. The London MMD Manager also agreed and
passed along the requested Euribor submissions to Deutsche Bank’s Euribor submitters, who

40

 
accommodated the requests. Accordingly, by seeking to affect the rates at which Yen LIBOR
and Euribor were fixed, traders at the other banks attempted to manipulate Yen LIBOR and
Euribor in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, and
13(a)(2) (2006). Deutsche Bank’s Senior Yen Trader-Submitter and London MMD Manager
had knowledge of and intentionally assisted the attempts of the traders at the other banks to
manipulate the rates at which Yen LIBOR and Euribor were fixed. By such acts of those
Deutsche Bank employees, Deutsche Bank aided and abetted the attempts of traders at other
banks to manipulate Yen LIBOR and Euribor in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2) (2006),

KE. Deutsche Bank is Liable for the Acts of Its Agents

Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B), and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2
(2012), provide that the act, omission, or failure of any official, agent, or other person acting for
any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust within the scope of his employment
or office shall be deemed the act, omission, or failure of such individual, association, partnership,
corporation, or trust. Pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the CEA and Commission Regulation
1,2, strict liability is imposed on principals for the actions of their agents. See, e.g., Rosenthal &
Co. v. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986); Dohmen-Ramirez & Wellington Advisory, Inc.
v. CFTC, 837 F.2d 847, 857-58 (9th Cir, 1988).

Deutsche Bank is liable for the acts, omissions, and failures of the traders, managers, and
submitters who acted as its employees and/or agents in the conduct described above and
accordingly, violated Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2)
(2006), as set forth above.

V.
FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Sections 6(c),
6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2) (2006).

VI.
OFFER OF SETTLEMENT
Respondent, without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, except to
the extent Respondent admits those findings in any related action against Respondent by, or any
agreement with, the Department of Justice or any other governmental agency or office, has

submitted the Offer in which it:

A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

4]

 
Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

Waives:

1. the service and filing of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. a hearing;

3. all post-hearing procedures;

4. —_ judicial review by any court;

5, any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6, any and all claims that Respondent may possess under the Equal Access to Justice
Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 (2006) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2006), and/or the rules
promulgated by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the
Commission’s Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2012), relating to, or arising
from, this proceeding;

7. any and all claims that Respondent may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253,
110 Stat, 847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-28, § 8302, 121
Stat, 112, 204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the

entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1.

makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Section 6(c), 6(d),
and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2) (2006);

orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c), 6(d), and
9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2) (2006);

orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of Eight
Hundred Million U.S. Dollars ($800,000,000) plus post-judgment interest; and

42

 
4. orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VIL of this
Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VII.
ORDER
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A. Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. 8§ 9, 13b, and 13(a)(2) (2006) of the Act.

B. Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty of Eight Hundred Million Dollars
($800,000,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the “CMP
Obligation”).’ If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10) days of the date
of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation
beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the
Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C.

§ 1961 (2006). Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer,
U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. HH
payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be
made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address
below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AM7-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax

nikki eibson@faa. gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shail simultaneously transmit

 

26 Effective June 18, 2008, the Act imposes a $1,000,000 civil monetary penalty for each act of

attempted and completed manipulation in violation of the Act. Certain of Respondent’s violations of the
Act for attempted and completed manipulation occurred after June 18, 2008.

43

 
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C, 20581.

C. Pursuant to Rule 506(d)(1)(iii)(B), 17 C.F.R.§ 230.506(d)(1)Gii)(B), of the Securities &
Exchange Commission's Regulation D, this Order constitutes a Commission final order
based on a violation of law or regulation, as specifically set forth within this Order, that
prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct. Under the specific and unique
facts and circumstances presented here, pursuant to Rule 506(d)(2)(iii), disqualification
under Rule 506(d)(1) of the Regulation D exemption should not arise as a consequence of
this Order.

D. Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer, Respondent represents that it has already
undertaken and implemented, or is implementing certain compliance and supervisory
controls or enhancements consistent with these Undertakings:

1. PRINCIPLES?’

i. Respondent agrees to undertake the following: (1) to ensure the integrity
and reliability of its Benchmark Interest Rate Submission(s), presently and
in the future; and (2) to identify, construct and promote effective
methodologies and processes of setting Benchmark Interest Rates, in
coordination with efforts by Benchmark Publishers, in order to ensure the
integrity and reliability of Benchmark Interest Rates in the future.

ii. Respondent represents and undertakes that each Benchmark Interest Rate
Submission by Respondent shall be based upon a rigorous and honest
assessment of information, and shall not be influenced by internal or
external conflicts of interest, or other factors or information extraneous to
any rules applicable to the setting of a Benchmark Interest Rate.

 

*7 The following terms are defined as follows:

Benchmark Interest Rate: An interest rate for a currency and maturity/tenor that is calculated
based on data received from market participants and published to the market on a regular,
periodic basis, such as LIBOR and Euribor;

Benchmark Publisher: A banking association or other entity that is responsible for or oversees
the calculation and publication of a Benchmark Interest Rate;

Submission(s): The interest rate(s) submitted for each currency and maturity/tenor to a
Benchmark Publisher, For example, if Respondent submits a rate for one-month and three-month
U.S. Dollar LIBOR, that would constitute two Submissions;

Submitter(s): The person(s) responsible for determining and/or transmitting the Submission(s);
and

Supervisor(s): The person(s) immediately and directly responsible for supervising any portion of
the process of Submission(s) and/or any of the Submitter(s).

44

 
2. INTEGRITY AND RELIABILITY OF BENCHMARK INTEREST RATE
SUBMISSIONS

i. DETERMINATION OF SUBMISSIONS: Respondent shall determine its
Submission(s) based on the following Factors, Adjustments and
Considerations, unless otherwise prohibited by or contrary to an
affirmative obligation imposed by any law or regulation, or the rules or
definitions issued by a Benchmark Publisher. Respondent’s transactions
shall be given the greatest weight in determining its Submissions, subject
to applying appropriate Adjustments and Considerations in order to reflect
the market measured by the Benchmark Interest Rate.”°

Respondent shall determine its Submissions as described in these
Undertakings within fourteen (14) days of the entry of this Order.

" Factor 1 — Respondent’s Borrowing or Lending Transactions
Observed by Respondent’s Submitters:

a. Respondent’s transactions in the market as defined by the
Benchmark Publisher for the particular Benchmark Interest
Rate;

b. Respondent’s transactions in other markets for unsecured
funds, including, but not limited to, certificates of deposit
and issuances of commercial paper; and

c. Respondent’s transactions in various related markets,
including, but not limited to, Overnight Index Swaps,
foreign currency forwards, repurchase agreements, futures,
and Fed Funds.

e Factor 2 — Third Party Transactions Observed by Respondent’s
Submitters:

a. Transactions in the market as defined by the Benchmark
Interest Rate relevant to cach of the Submission(s);

b. Transactions in other markets for unsecured funds,
including, but not limited to, certificates of deposit and
issuances of commercial paper; and

 

*8 The rules used by Benchmark Publishers to determine Benchmark Interest Rates vary, may not be

consistent with each other, and provide different levels of guidance as to how to make Submissions.

4S

 
c. Transactions in various related markets, including, but not
limited to, Overnight Index Swaps, foreign currency
forwards, repurchase agreements, futures, and Fed Funds.

» Factor 3 — Third Party Offers Observed by Respondent’s
Submitters:

a. Third party offers to Respondent in the market as defined
by the Benchmark Publisher relevant to each of the
Submission(s);

b. Third party offers in other markets for unsecured funds,
including, but not limited to, certificates of deposit and
issuances of commercial paper, provided to Respondent by
interdealer brokers (e.g., voice brokers); and

c. Third party offers provided to Respondent in various
related markets, including, but not limited to, Overnight
Index Swaps, foreign currency forwards, repurchase
agreements, and Fed Funds.

x Adjustments and Considerations: All of the following
Adjustments and Considerations may be applied with respect to
each of the Factors above:

a. Time: With respect to the Factors considered above,
proximity in time to the Submission(s) increases the
relevance of that Factor;

b. Market Events: Respondent may adjust its Submission(s)
based upon market events, including price variations in
related markets, that occur prior to the time at which the
Submission(s) must be made to the Benchmark Publisher.
That adjustment shall reflect measurable effects on
transacted rates, offers or bids;

c. Term Structure: As Respondent applies the above Factors,
if Respondent has data for any maturity/tenor described by
a Factor, then Respondent may interpolate or extrapolate
the remaining maturities/tenors from the available data;

d. Credit Standards: As Respondent applies the above
Factors, adjustments may be made to reflect Respondent’s
credit standing and/or the credit spread between the market
as defined by the Benchmark Publisher and transactions or
offers in the related markets used in the Factors above.

46

 
iL.

ill.

IV.

Additionally, Respondent may take into account
counterparties’ credit standings, access to funds, and
borrowing or lending requirements, and third party offers
considered in connection with the above Factors; and

e. Non-representative Transactions: To the extent a
transaction included among the Factors above significantly
diverges in an objective manner from other transactions,
and that divergence is not due to market events as
addressed above, Respondent may exclude such
transactions from the determination of its Submission(s).

SUPERVISOR(S) REVIEW: Effective within fourteen (14) days of the
entry of this Order, each daily Submission shall be reviewed by a
Supervisor on a daily basis after the Submission(s) are made to the
Benchmark Publisher.

QUALIFICATIONS OF SUBMITTER(S) AND SUPERVISOR(S): All

 

Submitter(s) shall have significant experience in the markets for the
Benchmark Interest Rate to which they are submitting or a comparable
market, but may designate less experienced parties, who routinely work
under their supervision, to make Submission(s) during limited periods of
absence. All Supervisors shall have significant experience in the markets
for the relevant Benchmark Interest Rate or a comparable market.
Submitters, Supervisors and any parties designated to make Submission(s)
when the Submitter(s) are absent shall not be assigned to any derivatives
trading desk, unit or division within Respondent, or participate in
derivatives trading other than that associated with Respondent’s liquidity
and liability management. The compensation of Submitter(s) and
Supervisor(s) also shall not be directly based upon derivatives trading,
other than that associated with Respondent’s liquidity and liability
management.

FIREWALLS: INTERNAL CONTROLS REGARDING IMPROPER
COMMUNICATIONS AND SUBMISSIONS: Respondent shall
implement internal controls and procedures to prevent improper
communications with Submitter(s) and Supervisor(s) regarding
Submission(s) or prospective Submission(s) to ensure the integrity and
reliability of its Submission(s). Such internal controls and procedures
shall include, but not be limited to:

 

 

s The “firewalls” contemplated herein will be implemented through
written policies and procedures that delineate proper and improper
communications with Submitter(s) and Supervisor(s), whether
internal or external to Respondent. For these purposes, improper
communications shall be any attempt to influence Respondent’s

47

 
Submission(s) for the benefit of any derivatives trading position
(whether of Respondent or any third party) or any attempt to cause
Respondent’s Submitter(s) to violate any applicable Benchmark
Publisher’s rules or definitions, or Section 2 of these Undertakings;
and

A requirement that the Submitter(s) shall not be located in close
proximity to traders who primarily deal in derivatives products that
reference a Benchmark Interest Rate to which Respondent
contributes any Submission(s). The two groups should be
separated such that neither can hear the other.

v. DOCUMENTATION: Respondent shall provide the documents set forth
below promptly and directly to the Commission upon request, without
subpoena or other process, regardless of whether the records are held
outside of the United States, to the extent permitted by law.

For each Submission, Respondent shall contemporaneously
memorialize, and retain in an easily accessible format for a period
of five (5) years after the date of each Submission, the following
information:

a. The Factors, Adjustments and Considerations described in
Section 2(1) above that Respondent used to determine its
Submission(s), including, but not limited to, identifying any
non-representative transactions excluded from the
determination of the Submission(s) and the basis for such
exclusions, as well as identifying all transactions given the
greatest weight or considered to be the most relevant, and
the basis for such conclusion;

b. All models or other methods used in determining
Respondent’s Submission(s), such as models for credit
standards and/or term structure, and any adjustments made
to the Submission(s) based on such models or other
methods;

c. Relevant data and information received from interdealer
brokers used in connection with determining Respondent’s
Submission(s) including, but not limited to, the following:

e Identification of the specific offers and bids relied

upon by Respondent when determining each
Submission; and

48

 
e The name of each company and person from whom
the information or data is obtained;

Respondent’s assessment of “reasonable market size” for
its Submission(s) (or any other such criteria for the
relevancy of transactions to a Benchmark Interest Rate), to
the extent that the rules for a Benchmark Interest Rate
require that pertinent transactions considered in connection
with Submission(s) be of “reasonable market size” (or any
other such criteria);

Information regarding market events considered by
Respondent in connection with determining its
Submission(s), including, without limitation, the following:

e The specific market announcement(s) or event(s);
and

e Any effect of such market event(s) on transacted
rates, offers or bids in the relevant markets; and

The identity of the Submitter(s) who made, and the
Supervisor(s) who reviewed, the Submission(s).

For each Submission, Respondent shall retain for a period of five
(5) years after the date of each Submission, the following
transactional data used by Respondent to determine its
Submission(s); the data shall be easily accessible and convertible
into Microsoft Excel file format; the data shall include, without
limitation, the following to the extent known to Respondent at the
time of the Submission(s):

= en Oe

Instrument; -

Maturity/tenor;

Trade type (7.e., loan/deposit, placing/taking);
Buy/sell indicator;

Transaction date (in mmddyyyy or ddmmyyyy format);
Maturity date Gn mmddyyyy or ddmmyyyy format);
Value date (in mmddyyyy or ddmmyyyy format);
Loan effective date;

Customer number/identifier;

Currency;

Ticket ID;

Timestamp;

. Counterparty A (buyer/bidder);

Counterparty B (seller/offeror);

49

 
Nominal/notional size of the transaction;

Interest basis (360/365 day year);

The fixed interest rate; and

Any special or additional terms (e.g., a repurchase
agreement or some form of “non-vanilla agreement”).

roa °

Transaction Records: Respondent shall retain for a period of five
(5) years trade transaction records and daily position and risk
reports, including (without limitation) monthly and quarterly
position and risk reports, related to the trading activities of
Submitter(s) and traders who primarily deal in derivatives products
that reference a Benchmark Interest Rate; the records and reports
shall be easily accessible and convertible into Microsoft Excel file
format.

 

Requirement To Record Communications: Respondent shall
record and retain to the greatest extent practicable all of the
following communications:

a, All communications concerning the determination and
review of the Submission(s); and

b, All communications of traders who primarily deal in
derivatives products that reference a Benchmark Interest
Rate concerning trades, transactions, prices, or trading
strategies pertaining to any derivative that references any
Benchmark Interest Rate (or the supervision thereof).

The above communications shall not be conducted in a manner to
prevent Respondent from recording such communications;

Audio communications of Submitters and Supervisors shall be
retained for a period of one (1) year. Audio communications of
traders who primarily deal in derivatives products that reference a
Benchmark Interest Rate, and who are located in at least the
London, Frankfurt, New York, and Tokyo offices of Respondent,
shall be retained for a period of six (6) months. Subject to a
reasonable time to implement, Respondent’s audio retention
requirements pursuant to these Undertakings shall commence
within a reasonable period after the entry of this Order and shall
continue for a period of five (5) years thereafter;

All communications except audio communications shall be
retained for a period of five (5) years; and

50

 
Nothing in these Undertakings shall limit, restrict or narrow any
obligations pursuant to the Act or the Commission Regulations
promulgated thereunder, including but not limited to Regulations
1.31 and 1.35, 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31 and 1.35 (2014), in effect now or
in the future.

vi. MONITORING AND AUDITING:

Monitoring: Respondent shall maintain or develop monitoring
systems or electronic exception reporting systems that identify
possible improper or unsubstantiated Submissions, Such reports
will be reviewed on at least a weekly basis and if there is any
significant deviation or issues, the underlying documentation for
the Submission shall be reviewed to determine whether the
Submission is adequately substantiated. If it is not substantiated,
Respondent shall notify its chief compliance officer(s) and the
Benchmark Publisher;

Periodic Audits: Starting six (6) months from the date of the entry
of this Order, and continuing every six (6) months thereafter,
unless an annual audit is scheduled at the same time, Respondent
shall conduct internal audits of reasonable, random samples of its
Submission(s), the factors and all other evidence documenting the
basis for such Submission(s), and communications of the
Submitter(s) in order to verify the integrity and reliability of the
process for determining Submission(s); and

Annual Audits By Third Party Auditors: Starting one (1) year
from the date of the entry of this Order, and continuing annually
for four (4) additional years thereafter, Respondent shall retain an
independent, third-party auditor to conduct an audit of its
Submission(s) and the process for determining Submission(s),
which shall include, without limitation, the following:

a. Reviewing communications of Submitter(s) and
Supervisor(s);

b. Interviewing the Submitter(s) and Supervisor(s), to the
extent they are still employed by Respondent;

c. Obtaining written verification from the Submitter(s) and
Supervisor(s), to the extent they are still employed by
Respondent, that the Submission(s) were consistent with
this Order, the policies and procedures in place for making
Respondent’s Submission(s), and the definitions applicable

Sl

 
to the Benchmark Interest Rate for which Respondent made
Submission(s); and

d. A written audit report to be provided to Respondent and the
Commission (with copies addressed to the Commission’s
Division of Enforcement (the “Division’”)).

vii. POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND CONTROLS: Within sixty (60) days

 

of the entry of this Order, Respondent shall develop policies, procedures,
and controls to comply with each of the specific Undertakings set forth
above with the goal of ensuring the integrity and reliability of its
Submission(s). In addition, Respondent shall develop policies,
procedures, and controls to ensure the following:

The supervision of the Submission process;

That any violations of the Undertakings or any questionable,
unusual or unlawful activity concerning Respondent’s Submissions
are reported to and investigated by Respondent’s compliance or
legal personnel and reported, as necessary, to authorities and the
Benchmark Publishers;

The periodic but routine review of electronic communications and
audio recordings of or relating to the Submission Process;

Not less than monthly, the periodic physical presence of
compliance personnel on the trading floors of the Submitter(s)
and/or traders who primarily deal in derivatives products that
reference a Benchmark Interest Rate in connection with these
Policies, Procedures and Controls;

The handling of complaints concerning the accuracy or integrity of
Respondent’s Submission(s) including:

a. Memorializing all such complaints;

b. Review and follow-up by the chief compliance officer(s) or
his designee of such complaints; and

The reporting of material complaints to the Chief Executive
Officer and Board of Directors, relevant self-regulatory
organizations, the relevant Benchmark Publisher, the Commission,
and/or other appropriate regulators.

vill, TRAINING: Respondent shall develop training programs for all
employees who are involved in its Submission(s), including, without

52

 
limitation, Submitters and Supervisors, and all traders who primarily deal
in derivatives products that reference a Benchmark Interest Rate.
Submitters and Supervisors shall be provided with preliminary training
regarding the policies, and procedures and controls developed pursuant to
Section 2(vil) of these Undertakings. By no later than July 22, 2015, all
Submitters, Supervisors, and traders who primarily deal in derivatives
products that reference a Benchmark Interest Rate shall be fully trained in
the application of these Undertakings to them, as set forth herein.
Thereafter, such training will be provided promptly to employees newly
assigned to any of the above listed responsibilities, and again to all
Submitters, Supervisors, and traders who primarily deal in derivatives
products that reference a Benchmark Interest Rate as part of Respondent’s
regular training programs. The training shall be based upon the
individual’s position and responsibilities, and as appropriate, address the
following topics:

u The Undertakings set forth herein;
# The process of making Submission(s);

a The impropriety of attempting to influence the determination of
Respondent’s Submission(s);

« The requirement to conduct all business related to Respondent’s
Submission(s) on Respondent’s recorded telephone and electronic
communications systems, and not on personal telephones or other
electronic devices, as set forth in Section 2(v) of these
Undertakings;

s The requirement to conduct certain business related to derivatives
products that reference a Benchmark Interest Rate on Respondent’s
recorded telephone and electronic communications systems, and
not on personal devices or systems, as set forth in Section 2(v) of
these Undertakings;

# The policies and procedures developed and instituted pursuant to
these Undertakings; and

x ‘The employment and other potential consequences if employees
act unlawfully or improperly in connection with Respondent’s

Submission(s) or process for determining Submission(s).

ix. REPORTS TO THE COMMISSION:

 

# Compliance with Undertakings: Every four (4) months, starting
120 days from the entry of this Order, Respondent shall make

 

53

 
interim reports to the Commission, through the Division,
explaining its progress towards compliance with the Undertakings
set forth herein. Within 365 days of the entry of this Order,
Respondent shall submit a report to the Commission, through the
Division, explaining how they have complied with the
Undertakings set forth herein. The report shall attach copies of and
describe the internal controls, policies and procedures that have
been designed and implemented to satisfy the Undertakings. The
report shall contain a certification from representatives of
Respondent’s Executive Management, after consultation with
Respondent’s chief compliance officer(s), that Respondent has
complied with the Undertakings set forth above, and that they have
established policies, procedures and controls to satisfy the
Undertakings set forth in this Order;

Submitter(s), Supervisor(s), and Heads of Appropriate Trading
Desks: Within fourteen (14) days of the entry of this Order, or as
soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than July 22, 2015,
Respondent shall provide, meet with and explain these
Undertakings to all Submitters, Supervisors, and the head of each
trading desk that primarily deals in derivatives that reference a
Benchmark Interest Rate. Within that same time frame,
Respondent shall provide to the Commission, through the Division,
written or electronic affirmations signed by each Submitter,
Supervisor, and head of each trading desk that primarily deals in
derivatives that reference a Benchmark Interest Rate, stating that
he or she has received and read the Order and Undertakings herein,
and that he or she understands these Undertakings to be effective
immediately; and

Disciplinary and Other Actions: Respondent shall promptly report
to the Commission, through the Division, all improper conduct
related to any Submission(s) or the attempted manipulation or
manipulation of a Benchmark Interest Rate, as well as any
disciplinary action, or other law enforcement or regulatory action
related thereto, unless de minimis or otherwise prohibited by
applicable laws or regulations.

 

54

 
3. DEVELOPMENT OF RIGOROUS STANDARDS FOR BENCHMARK
INTEREST RATES

To the extent Respondent is or remains a contributor to any Benchmark Interest
Rate, Respondent agrees to make its best efforts to participate in efforts by current
and future Benchmark Publishers, other price reporting entities and/or regulators
to ensure the reliability of Benchmark Interest Rates, and through its participation
to encourage the following:

1.

ii,

iil.

iv.

METHODOLOGY: Creating rigorous methodologies for the contributing
panel members to formulate their Submissions. The aim of such
methodologies should be to result in a Benchmark Interest Rate that
accurately reflects the rates at which transactions are occurring in the
market being measured by that Benchmark Interest Rate;

 

VERIFICATION: Enforcing the use of those methodologies through an
effective regime of documentation, monitoring, supervision and auditing,
required by and performed by the Benchmark Publishers, and by the
contributing panel members internally;

INVESTIGATION: Facilitating the reporting of complaints and concerns
regarding the accuracy or integrity of Submissions to Benchmark Interest
Rates or the published Benchmark Interest Rate, and investigating those
complaints and concerns thoroughly;

 

DISCIPLINE: Taking appropriate action if, following a thorough
confidential investigation, the Benchmark Publisher determines that a
complaint or concern regarding the accuracy or integrity of a Submission
or the published Benchmark Interest Rate has been substantiated;

TRANSPARENCY: Making regular reports to the public and the markets
of facts relevant to the integrity and reliability of each Benchmark Interest
Rate. Such reports should include, but not be limited to, the following:

 

x At the time each Benchmark Interest Rate is published, the
Benchmark Publisher should display prominently whether each
rate is based entirely on transactions in the market the rate is
supposed to reflect, or whether it instead is based, in whole or in
part, on other data or information;

# The Benchmark Publisher also should make periodic reports
regarding the number and nature of complaints and concerns
received regarding the accuracy or integrity of Submissions or the
published Benchmark Interest Rate while maintaining the
anonymity of all those who have reported or are the subject of
complaints and concerns;

55

 
V1.

# The Benchmark Publisher should additionally make periodic
reports regarding the results of all investigations into such
complaints and concerns while maintaining the anonymity of all
those involved in investigations that have not yet been completed;
and

FORMULATION: Periodically examining whether each Benchmark
Interest Rate accurately reflects the rate at which transactions are
occuring in the market being measured (using the statistical method
prescribed by that Benchmark Interest Rate), and evaluating whether the
definition and instructions should be revised, or the composition of the
panel changed;

Such examinations should include a rigorous mathematical comparison of
transactions in the relevant market with the published Benchmark Interest
Rate on the same day over a specified period and a determination of
whether any differences are statistically or commercially significant.

Every four (4) months, starting 120 days from the entry of this Order, Respondent
shall report to the Commission, through the Division, either orally or in writing,
on its participation in such efforts, to the extent that such reporting is not
otherwise prohibited by law or regulations, by the rules issued by Benchmark
Publishers, or by nondisclosure agreements by and between Respondent and
Benchmark Publishers.

4, COOPERATION WITH THE COMMISSION

i,

Respondent shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission,
including the Division, and any other governmental agency in this action,
and in any investigation, civil litigation or administrative matter related to
the subject matter of this action or any current or future Commission
investigation related thereto. As part of such cooperation, Respondent
agrees to the following for a period of five (5) years from the date of the
entry of this Order, or until all related investigations and litigation are
concluded, including through the appellate review process, whichever
period is longer:

# Preserve all records relating to the subject matter of this
proceeding, including, but not limited to, audio files, electronic
mail, other documented communications, and trading records;

s Subject to applicable laws and regulations, comply fully, promptly,

completely, and truthfully with all inquiries and requests for
information or documents;

56

 
= Provide authentication of documents and other evidentiary
material;

a Subject to applicable laws and regulations, provide copies of
documents within Respondent’s possession, custody or control;

a Subject to applicable laws and regulations, Respondent will make
its best efforts to produce any current (as of the time of the request)
officer, director, employee, or agent of Respondent, regardless of
the individual’s location, and at such location that minimizes
Commission travel expenditures, to provide assistance at any trial,
proceeding, or Commission investigation related to the subject
matter of this proceeding, including, but not limited to, requests for
testimony, depositions, and/or interviews, and to encourage them
to testify completely and truthfully in any such proceeding, trial, or
investigation; and

# Subject to applicable laws and regulations, Respondent will make
its best efforts to assist in locating and contacting any prior (as of
the time of the request) officer, director, employee, or agent of
Respondent;

ii. Respondent also agrees that it will not undertake any act, other than as
required by applicable law, which would limit its ability to cooperate fully
with the Commission. Respondent will designate an agent located in the
United States of America to receive all requests for information pursuant
to these Undertakings, and shall provide notice regarding the identity of
such Agent to the Division upon entry of this Order. Should Respondent
seek to change the designated agent to receive such requests, notice of
such intention shall be given to the Division fourteen (14) days before it
occurs. Any person designated to receive such request shall be located in
the United States of America; and

ill. Respondent and the Commission agree that nothing in these Undertakings
shall be construed so as to compel Respondent to continue to contribute
Submission(s) related to any Benchmark Interest Rate. Without prior
consultation with the Commission, Respondent remains free to withdraw
from the panel of contributors to any Benchmark Interest Rate.

5. PROHIBITED OR CONFLICTING UNDERTAKINGS

Should the Undertakings herein be prohibited by, or be contrary to the provisions
of any obligations imposed on Respondent by any presently existing, or
hereinafter enacted or promulgated laws, regulations, regulatory mandates, or the
rules or definitions issued by a Benchmark Publisher, then Respondent shall
promptly transmit notice to the Commission (through the Division) of such

37

 
prohibition or conflict, and shall meet and confer in good faith with the
Commission (through the Division) to reach an agreement regarding possible
modifications to the Undertakings herein sufficient to resolve such inconsistent
obligations. In the interim, Respondent will abide by the obligations imposed by
the law, regulations, regulatory mandates and Benchmark Publishers’ rules and
definitions. Nothing in these Undertakings shall limit, restrict or narrow any
obligations pursuant to the Act or the Commission Regulations promulgated
thereunder, including but not limited to Regulations 1.31 and 1.35, 17 C.F.R. §§
1.31 and 1.35 (2014), in effect now or in the future.

6. PUBLIC STATEMENTS

Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and assigns, agents or
employees under its authority or control shall take any action or make any public
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order
or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Respondent’s
(i) testimonial obligations, or (i1) right to take legal positions in other proceedings
to which the Commission is not a party. Respondent and its successors and
assigns shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or
employees under its authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement.

E, Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be deemed a
waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of
the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

    

    
  

  

Christopher J“Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: April 23, 2015

58
