U.S. Department of Justice

 

 

United States Attorney Criminal Division
Southern District of New York Fraud Section
The Silvio J. Mollo Building Bond Building

— One Saint Andrew’s Plaza 950 1400 New York Ave, NW
New York, New York 10007 11th Floor

Washington, D.C. 20005

November 26, 2019

Cheryl J. Scarboro —
Joshua A. Levine ROOD
Diana C. Wielocha

Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP

ameseNy TT ()EQOCRIM 884 (00%)

Re: = United States v. Ericsson Egypt Ltd.

 

Dear Counsel:

Pursuant to Rule 11(c)(1)(C) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the United States
of America, by and through the Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section (the
“Fraud Section’) and the Office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New
York (the “Office”) (collectively, the “United States”), and the Defendant, Ericsson Egypt Ltd.
(“Ericsson Egypt” or the “Defendant”), by and through its undersigned attorneys, and through its
authorized representative, pursuant to authority granted by the Defendant’s shareholders, hereby
submit and enter into this plea agreement (the “Agreement”). The terms and conditions of this
Agreement are as follows:

The Defendant’s Agreement
1. Pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(c)(1)(C), the Defendant agrees to waive its right to

grand jury indictment and its right to challenge venue in the District Court for the Southern District

1
of New York, and to plead guilty to a one-count criminal Information charging the Defendant with
conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 371, that is, to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), as amended, see Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1. The
Defendant further agrees to persist in that plea through sentencing and, as set forth below, to
cooperate fully with the Fraud Section and the Office in their investigation into the conduct
described in this Agreement and other conduct related to the conduct described in this Agreement
and the Statement of Facts attached hereto as Exhibit 2 (the “Statement of Facts”).

2. The Defendant understands that, to be guilty of this offense, the following
essential elements of the offense must be satisfied:

Count One

a. The agreement specified in the Information, and not some other agreement

or agreements, existed between at least two people to violate the anti-bribery provision of

the FCPA;
b. the Defendant willfully joined in that agreement; and
& one of the conspirators committed an overt act during the period of the

conspiracy to effect the object of the conspiracy.

3 The Defendant understands and agrees that this Agreement is between the Fraud
Section and the Office and the Defendant and does not bind any other division or section of the
Department of Justice or any other federal, state, or local prosecuting, administrative, or regulatory
authority. Nevertheless, the Fraud Section and the Office will bring this Agreement and the nature
and quality of the conduct, cooperation and remediation of the Defendant and its direct or indirect

affiliates, parent companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures, to the attention of other prosecuting
Z
authorities or other agencies, as well as debarment authorities and Multilateral Development Banks
(“MDBs”), if requested by the Defendant.

4, The Defendant agrees that this Agreement will be executed by an authorized
corporate representative. The Defendant further agrees that a resolution duly adopted by the
Defendant’s shareholders in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit 1 authorizes the
Defendant to enter into this Agreement and take all necessary steps to effectuate this Agreement,
and that the signatures on this Agreement by the Defendant and its counsel are authorized by the
Defendant’s shareholders, on behalf of the Defendant.

5, The Defendant agrees that it has the full legal right, power, and authority to enter
into and perform all of its obligations under this Agreement.

6. The Fraud Section and the Office enter into this Agreement based on the individual
facts and circumstances presented by this case and Ericsson Egypt’s parent company,
Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (the “Parent Company”), including:

a. The Parent Company entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (the
“DPA”) simultaneously to the Defendant entering its guilty plea;

b, The Parent Company has agreed to pay a total criminal monetary penalty of
$520,650,432 to the United States Treasury relating to the same conduct;

C. The Parent Company and the Defendant did not receive voluntary
disclosure credit pursuant to the FCPA Corporate Enforcement Policy in the Department of Justice
Manual (“JM”) 9-47.120, or pursuant to the United States Sentencing Guidelines (“U.S.S.G.” or
“Sentencing Guidelines”), because they did not voluntarily self-disclose to the Fraud Section and

the Office the conduct described in the Statement of Facts;
d. The Parent Company and the Defendant received partial credit for their
cooperation with the Fraud Section’s and the Office’s investigation pursuant to the FCPA
Corporate Enforcement Policy, JM 9-47.120, because they conducted a thorough internal
investigation; made regular factual presentations to the Fraud Section and the Office; provided
facts learned during witness interviews conducted by the Parent Company; voluntarily made
foreign-based employees available for interviews in the United States; produced extensive
documentation, including documents located outside of the United States as well as translations of
foreign language documents; and proactively disclosed some conduct of which the Fraud Section
and the Office were previously unaware;

a. The Parent Company and the Defendant did not receive full credit for
cooperation and remediation pursuant to the FCPA Corporate Enforcement Policy, JM 9-47.120,
because the Parent Company did not disclose allegations of corruption with respect to two relevant
matters, produced certain relevant materials in an untimely manner, and did not timely and fully
remediate, including by failing to take adequate disciplinary measures with respect to certain
executives and other employees involved in the conduct;

- Although the Parent Company and the Defendant had inadequate anti-
corruption controls and an inadequate anti-corruption compliance program during the period of
the conduct described in the Statement of Facts, the Parent Company has been enhancing and has
committed to continuing to enhance its compliance program and internal accounting controls,
including ensuring that its compliance program satisfies the minimum elements set forth in
Attachment C to the DPA;

g. Because the Parent Company has not yet fully implemented or tested its

compliance program, the Parent Company has agreed to the imposition of an independent
4
compliance monitor to reduce the risk of misconduct, including at its subsidiaries including the
Defendant, as set forth in Attachment D to the DPA;

h. The nature and seriousness of the offense conduct, including the payment
of bribes to high-level government officials in Djibouti, as well as significant books and records
and internal controls violations in Djibouti, China, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Kuwait, over a period
of years which included the involvement of high-level executives at the Parent Company;

1. The Parent Company and the Defendant have no prior criminal history; and

is The Parent Company and the Defendant have agreed to continue to
cooperate with the Fraud Section and the Office in any ongoing investigation as described in
Paragraph 9 below;

k. The Parent Company has agreed to resolve with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) through a civil complaint and injunction that will be filed on
December 6, 2019, relating to the conduct described in the Statement of Facts, as well as conduct
in Saudi Arabia, and has agreed to pay $458,380,000 in disgorgement and $81,540,000 in pre-
judgment interest. |

l. Accordingly, after considering (a) through (j) above, the Fraud Section and
the Office believe the appropriate resolution in this case is a deferred prosecution agreement with
the Parent Company; a criminal monetary penalty of $520,650,432, which reflects an aggregate
discount of fifteen percent off of the bottom of the otherwise-applicable U.S. Sentencing
Guidelines fine range and which includes a criminal fine against the Defendant of $9,520,000 to
be paid by the Parent Company on behalf of Ericsson Egypt; the imposition of an independent

compliance monitor; and this guilty plea by Ericsson Egypt.
ve The Defendant agrees to abide by all terms and obligations of this Agreement as

described herein, including, but not limited to, the following:

a. to plead guilty as set forth in this Agreement,
b. to abide by all sentencing stipulations contained in this Agreement;
e, to appear, through its duly appointed representatives, as ordered for all court

appearances, and obey any other ongoing court order in this matter, consistent with all applicable

U.S. and foreign laws, procedures, and regulations;

d. to commit no further crimes;
e. to be truthful at all times with the Court;
i@ to pay the applicable fine and special assessment; and

g. to work with the Parent Company in fulfilling the obligations of the DPA.

8. Except as may otherwise be agreed by the parties in connection with a particular
transaction, the Defendant agrees that in the event that, during the term of the Parent Company
DPA (the “Term”), the Defendant undertakes any change in corporate form, including if it sells,
merges, or transfers business operations that are material to the Defendant’s consolidated
operations, or to the operations of any subsidiaries or affiliates involved in the conduct described
in the Statement of Facts, as they exist as of the date of this Agreement, whether such sale is
structured as a sale, asset sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form, it shall include
in any contract for sale, merger, transfer, or other change in corporate form a provision binding
the purchaser, or any successor in interest thereto, to the obligations described in this
Agreement. The purchaser or successor in interest must also agree in writing that the Fraud
Section and the Office’s ability to declare a breach under this Agreement is applicable in full force

to that entity. The Defendant agrees that the failure to include these provisions in the transaction
6
will make any such transaction null and void. The Defendant shall provide notice to the Fraud
Section and the Office at least thirty days prior to undertaking any such sale, merger, transfer, or
other change in corporate form. The Fraud Section and the Office shall notify the Defendant prior
to such transaction (or series of transactions) if it determines that the transaction(s) will have the
effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement. If at any time
during the Term the Defendant engages in a transaction(s) that has the effect of circumventing or
frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office may
deem it a breach of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraphs 22-25 of this Agreement. Nothing
herein shall restrict the Defendant from indemnifying (or otherwise holding harmless) the
purchaser or successor in interest for penalties or other costs arising from any conduct that may
have occurred prior to the date of the transaction, so long as such indemnification does not have
the effect of circumventing or frustrating the enforcement purposes of this Agreement, as
determined by the Fraud Section and the Office.

9. The Defendant shall cooperate fully with the Fraud Section and the Office in any
and all matters relating to the conducted described in this Agreement and the Statement of Facts,
and other conduct under investigation by the Fraud Section and the Office at any time during the
Term, subject to applicable laws and regulations, until the later of the date upon which all
investigations and prosecutions arising out of such conduct are concluded, or the end of the Term.
At the request of the Fraud Section or the Office, the Defendant shall also cooperate fully with
other domestic or foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities and agencies, as well as the
Multilateral Development Banks (“MDBs”), in any investigation of the Defendant, the Parent
Company or its affiliates, or any of its present or former officers, directors, employees, agents, and

consultants, or any other party, in any and all matters relating to the conduct described in this
7
Agreement and the Statement of Facts. The Defendant’s cooperation pursuant to this Paragraph
is subject to applicable laws and regulations, including data privacy and national security laws and
regulations, as well as valid claims of attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine;
however, the Parent Company must provide to the Fraud Section and the Office a log of any
information or cooperation that is not provided based on an assertion of law, regulation, or
privilege, and the Parent Company bears the burden of establishing the validity of any such
assertion. The Defendant agrees that its cooperation pursuant to this paragraph shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:

a. The Defendant shall truthfully disclose all factual information with respect
to its activities, those of its parent company and affiliates, and those of its present and former
directors, officers, employees, agents, and consultants, including any evidence or allegations and
internal or external investigations, about which the Defendant has any knowledge or about which
the Fraud Section and the Office may inquire. This obligation of truthful disclosure includes, but
is not limited to, the obligation of the Defendant to provide to the Fraud Section and the Office,
upon request, any document, record, or other tangible evidence about which the Fraud Section and
the Office may inquire of the Defendant. |

b. Upon request of the Fraud Section and the Office, the Defendant shall
designate knowledgeable employees, agents, or stomeys to provide to the Fraud Section and the
Office the information and materials described in Paragraph 9(a) above on behalf of the Defendant.
It is further understood that the Defendant must at all times provide complete, truthful, and accurate
information.

e. The Defendant shall use its best efforts to make available for interviews or

testimony, as requested by the Fraud Section and the Office, present or former officers, directors,
8
employees, agents and consultants of the Defendant. This obligation includes, but is not limited
to, sworn testimony before a federal grand jury or in federal trials, all meetings requested by the
Fraud Section and the Office, and interviews with domestic or foreign law enforcement and
regulatory authorities. Cooperation under this Paragraph shall include identification of witnesses
who, to the knowledge of the Defendant, may have material information regarding the matters
being investigated or prosecuted.

d. With respect to any information, testimony, documents, records, or other
tangible evidence provided to the Fraud Section and the Office pursuant to this Agreement, the
Defendant consents to any and all disclosures, subject to applicable law and regulations, to other
governmental authorities, including United States authorities and those of a foreign government,
as well as the MDBs, of such materials as the Fraud Section and the Office, in their sole discretion,
shall deem appropriate.

10. During the term of the cooperation obligations provided for in the Paragraph 9 of
the Agreement, should the Defendant learn of any evidence or allegation of conduct that may
constitute a violation of the FCPA anti-bribery or accounting provisions had the conduct occurred
within the jurisdiction of the United States, the Defendant shall promptly report such evidence or
allegation to the Fraud Section and the Office. Thirty days prior to the end of the term of the
cooperation obligations provided for in Paragraph 9 of the Agreement, the Defendant, through an
appropriate senior executive, will certify to the Fraud Section and the Office that the Defendant
has met its disclosure obligations pursuant to Paragraph 9 and this Paragraph. Each certification
will be deemed a material statement and representation by the Defendant to the executive branch
of the United States for purposes of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1001 and 1519, and it will be deemed to have

been made in the judicial district in which this Agreement is filed.
9
11. The Defendant agrees that any fine or restitution imposed by the Court will be due
and payable in full within ten days of the entry of judgment following such sentencing hearing,
and the Defendant will not attempt to avoid or delay payment. The Defendant further agrees to
pay the Clerk of the Court for the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York the mandatory special assessment of $400 per count within ten business days from the date
of sentencing.

The United States’ Agreement

12. In exchange for the guilty plea of the Defendant and the complete fulfillment of all
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office agree they will not file
additional criminal charges against the Defendant, the Parent Company, or any of its direct or
indirect affiliates, subsidiaries, or joint ventures relating to any of the conduct described in the
Statement of Facts, except as set forth in the DPA. This Paragraph does not provide any protection
against prosecution for any crimes, including corrupt payments or related false books and records
and failure to implement adequate internal controls, made in the future by the Defendant, by the
Parent Company, or by any of their officers, directors, employees, agents, or consultants, whether
or not disclosed by the Defendant pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement does
not close or preclude the investigation or prosecution of any natural persons, including any
officers, directors, employees, agents, or consultants of the Defendant, the Parent Company or
their direct or indirect affiliates, subsidiaries, or joint ventures, who may have been involved in
any of the matters set forth in the Information, the Statement of Facts, or in any other matters. The
Defendant agrees that nothing in this Agreement is intended to release the Defendant from any of
the Defendant’s excise and income tax liabilities and reporting obligations for any and all income

not properly reported and/or legally or illegally obtained or derived.
10
Factual Basis

13. The Defendant is pleading guilty because it is guilty of the charge contained in the
Information. The Defendant admits, agrees, and stipulates that the factual allegations set forth in
the Information and the Statement of Facts are true and correct, that it is responsible for the acts
of its officers, directors, employees, and agents described in the Information and the Statement of
Facts, and that the Information and the Statement of Facts accurately reflect the Defendant’s
criminal conduct.

The Defendant’s Waiver of Rights, Including the Right to Appeal

14. Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11(f) and Federal Rule of Evidence 410 limit
the admissibility of statements made in the course of plea proceedings or plea discussions in both
civil and criminal proceedings, if the guilty plea is later withdrawn. The Defendant expressly
warrants that it has discussed these rules with its counsel and understands them. Solely to the
extent set forth below, the Defendant voluntarily waives and gives up the rights enumerated in
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11(f) and Federal Rule of Evidence 410. Specifically, the
Defendant understands and agrees that any statements that it makes in the course of its guilty plea
or in connection with the Agreement are admissible against it for any purpose in any U.S. federal
criminal proceeding if, even though the Fraud Section and the Office have fulfilled all of their
obligations under this Agreement and the Court has imposed the agreed-upon sentence, the
Defendant nevertheless withdraws its guilty plea.

15. | The Defendant is satisfied that the Defendant’s attorneys have rendered effective
assistance. The Defendant understands that by entering into this agreement, the Defendant
surrenders certain rights as provided in this agreement. The Defendant understands that the rights

of criminal defendants include the following:
11
(a) the right to plead not guilty and to persist in that plea;

(b) the right to a jury trial;

(c) the right to be represented by counsel — and if necessary have the court appoint
counsel — at trial and at every other stage of the proceedings;

(d) the right at trial to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses, to be protected
from compelled self-incrimination, to testify and present evidence, and to compel the attendance
of witnesses; and

(e) pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742, the right to appeal the
sentence imposed.

Nonetheless, the Defendant knowingly waives the right to appeal or collaterally attack the
conviction and any sentence within the statutory maximum described below (or the manner in
which that sentence was determined) on the grounds set forth in Title 18, United States Code,
Section 3742, or on any ground whatsoever except those specifically excluded in this Paragraph,
in exchange for the concessions made by the United States in this plea agreement. This agreement
does not affect the rights or obligations of the United States as set forth in Title 18, United States
Code, Section 3742(b). The Defendant also knowingly waives the right to bring any collateral
challenge challenging either the conviction or the sentence imposed in this case. The Defendant
hereby waives all rights, whether asserted directly or by a representative, to request or receive from
any department or agency of the United States any records pertaining to the investigation or
prosecution of this case, including without limitation any records that may be sought under the
Freedom of Information Act, Title 5, United States Code, Section 552, or the Privacy Act, Title 5,
United States Code, Section 552a. The Defendant waives all defenses based on the statute of

limitations and venue with respect to any prosecution related to the conduct described in the
12
Statement of Facts or the Information, including any prosecution that is not time-barred on the date
that this Agreement is signed in the event that: (a) the conviction is later vacated for any reason;
(b) the Defendant violates this Agreement; or (c) the plea is later withdrawn, provided such
prosecution is brought within one year of any such vacation of conviction, violation of agreement,
or withdrawal of plea plus the remaining time period of the statute of limitations as of the date that
this Agreement is signed. The Fraud Section and the Office are free to take any position on appeal
or any other post-judgment matter. The parties agree that any challenge to the Defendant’s
sentence that is not foreclosed by this Paragraph will be limited to that portion of the sentencing
calculation that is inconsistent with (or not addressed by) this waiver. Nothing in the foregoing
waiver of appellate and collateral review rights shall preclude the Defendant from raising a claim
of ineffective assistance of counsel in an appropriate forum.
Penalty

16. The statutory maximum sentence that the Court can impose for the offense charged
in the Information is a fine of $500,000, or twice the gross gain or gross loss resulting from the
offense, whichever is the greatest, see 18 U.S.C. 3571(c)(3) & (d); five years’ probation, see Title
18, United States Code, Section 3561(c)(1); restitution in the amount of any victims’ losses as
ordered by the Court. and a mandatory special assessment of $400 per count, see Title 18, United
States Code, Section 3013(a)(2)(B). In this case, the parties agree that the gross pecuniary gain
resulting from the offense is $7,000,000. Therefore, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3571(d), the
maximum fine that may be imposed is $14,000,000 per offense, or in this case a total of

$14,000,000.

13
Sentencing Recommendation

17. The parties agree that pursuant to United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220 (2005), the
Court must determine an advisory sentencing guideline range pursuant to the United States
Sentencing Guidelines. The Court will then determine a reasonable sentence within the statutory
range after considering the advisory sentencing guideline range and the factors listed in Title 18,
United States Code, Section 3553(a). The parties’ agreement herein to any guideline sentencing
factors constitutes proof of those factors sufficient to satisfy fhe apelinabite burden of proof. The
Defendant also understands that if the Court accepts this Agreement, the Court is bound by the
sentencing provisions in Paragraph 16.

18. The Fraud Section and the Office and the Defendant agree that a faithful application
of the Sentencing Guidelines to determine the applicable fine range yields the following analysis:

a. The 2018 version of the U.S.S.G. is applicable to this matter.

b. Offense Level. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 2C1.1, the total offense level is 36,
calculated as follows:

(a)(2) Base Offense Level . 12
(b)(1) More than one bribe 4D

(b)(2) Value of benefit received ($7,000,000) is greater
than $3,500,000 but not more than $9,500,000 +18

(b)(3) Public official in a high-level decision-making
position +4

TOTAL 36

C. Base Fine. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 8C2.4(a)(1), the base fine is
$80,000,000

d. Culpability Score. Based upon U.S.S.G. § 8C2.5, the culpability score is
6, calculated as follows:
14
(a) Base Culpability Score 2

(b)(3) the unit of the organization within which the offense
was committed had 200 or more employees and an
individual within high-level personnel of the unit
participated in, condoned, or was willfully ignorant
of the offense +3

(g)(2) The organization fully cooperated in the
investigation and clearly demonstrated recognition
and affirmative acceptance of responsibility for the
criminal conduct -2

TOTAL 6

Calculation of Fine Range:

Base Fine $80,000,000

Multipliers 1.20 (min)/2.40 (max)

Fine Range $96,000,000 (min)/
$192,000,000 (max)

19. Pursuant to Rule 11(c)(1)(C) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Fraud
Section and the Office and the Defendant agree that the following represents the appropriate
disposition of the case:

a. Disposition. Pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(c)(1)(C), the Fraud Section,
the Office, and the Defendant agree that the appropriate disposition of this case is as set forth
above, and agree to recommend jointly that the Court at a hearing to be scheduled at an agreed
upon time impose a sentence requiring the Defendant to pay a criminal fine of $9,520,000, payable,
in full within ten business days of such sentencing hearing (“the Recommended Sentence”). The
parties agree that the Recommended Sentence is appropriate in light of the Parent Company DPA,

which relates to, among other conduct, the same conduct to which the Defendant is pleading guilty,
15
and which requires the Parent Company to pay a total criminal fine of $520,650,432 as a result of
the misconduct committed by both the Parent Company and the Defendant, as well as the factors
cited in the DPA. As described in the DPA, the Recommended Sentence shall be deducted from
the $520,650,432 total criminal monetary penalty and shall be paid by the Parent Company.

b. The Defendant shall not seek or accept, directly or indirectly,
reimbursement or indemnification from any source, other than the Parent Company, with regard
to the fine, forfeiture, or disgorgement amounts that the Defendant pays pursuant to the Agreement
or any other agreement entered into with an enforcement authority or regulator concerning the
facts set forth in the Statement of Facts. The Defendant further acknowledges that no tax deduction
may be sought in connection with the payment of any part of this $9,520,000 criminal fine. The
Fraud Section and the Office believe that a disposition that includes $9,520,000 criminal fine is
appropriate based on the factors outlined in Paragraph 6 of this Agreement and those set forth in
18 U.S.C. § 3553(a).

oe Mandatory Special Assessment. The Defendant shall pay to the Clerk of

 

the Court for the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York within ten
days of the time of sentencing the mandatory special assessment of $400 per count.

d. Restitution. As of the date of the Agreement, the Fraud Section, the Office
and the Defendant have not identified any victim qualifying for restitution and thus are not
requesting an order of restitution. The Defendant recognizes and agrees, however, that restitution
is imposed at the sole discretion of the Court. The Defendant agrees to pay restitution as part of
the Agreement in the event restitution is ordered by the Court.

20. This Agreement is presented to the Court pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P. 11(¢)(1)(C).

The Defendant understands that, if the Court rejects this Agreement, the Court must: (a) inform
16
the parties that the Court rejects the Agreement; (b) advise the Defendant’s counsel that the Court
is not required to follow the Agreement and afford the Defendant the opportunity to withdraw its
plea; and (c) advise the Defendant that if the plea is not withdrawn, the Court may dispose of the
case less favorably toward the Defendant than the Agreement contemplated. The Defendant
further understands that if the Court refuses to accept any provision of this Agreement, neither
party shall be bound by the provisions of the Agreement.

21. The Fraud Section, the Office, and the Defendant waive the preparation of a Pre-
Sentence Investigation Report (“PSR”) and intend to seek a sentencing by the Court immediately
following the Rule 11 hearing in the absence of a PSR. The Defendant understands that the
decision whether to proceed with the sentencing proceeding without a PSR is exclusively that of
the Court. In the event the Court directs the preparation of a Presentence Investigation Report, the
Fraud Section and the Office will fully inform the preparer of the Presentence Investigation Report
and the Court of the facts and law related to the Defendant’s case. At the time of the plea hearing,
the parties will suggest mutually agreeable and convenient dates for the sentencing hearing with
adequate time for (a) any objections to the Presentence Report, and (b) consideration by the Court
of the Presentence Report and the parties’ sentencing submissions.

Breach of Agreement

22. If, during the Term, the Defendant (a) commits any felony under U.S. federal law;
(b) provides in connection with this Agreement deliberately false, incomplete, or misleading
information; (c) fails to cooperate as set forth in Paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Agreement; (d)
commits any acts that, had they occurred within the jurisdictional reach of FCPA, would be a
violation of the FCPA; or (e) otherwise fails specifically to perform or to fulfill completely each

of the Defendant’s obligations under the Agreement, regardless of whether the Fraud Section and
17
the Office become aware of such a breach after the term specified in the Parent Company DPA,
the Defendant shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which
the Fraud Section and the Office have knowledge, including, but not limited to, the charge in the
Information described in Paragraph 1, which may be pursued by the Office in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York or any other appropriate venue. Determination of
whether the Defendant has breached the Agreement and whether to pursue prosecution of the
Defendant shall be in the Fraud Section and the Office’s sole discretion. Any such prosecution
may be premised on information provided by the Defendant. Any such prosecution relating to the
conduct described in the attached Statement of Facts or relating to conduct known to the Fraud
Section and the Office prior to the date on which this Agreement was signed that is not time-barred
by the applicable statute of limitations on the date of the signing of this Agreement may be
commenced against the Defendant, notwithstanding the expiration of the statute of limitations,
between the signing of this Agreement and the expiration of the Term plus one year. Thus, by
signing this Agreement, the Defendant agrees that the statute of limitations with respect to any
such prosecution that is not time-barred on the date of the signing of this Agreement shall be tolled
for the term described the DPA plus one year. The Defendant gives up all defenses based on the
statute of limitations, any claim of pre-indictment delay, or any speedy trial claim with respect to
any such prosecution or action, except to the extent that such defenses existed as of the date of the
signing of this Agreement. In addition, the Defendant agrees that the statute of limitations as to
any violation of federal law that occurs during the term of the cooperation obligations provided
for in Paragraph 9 of the Agreement will be tolled from the date upon which the violation occurs

until the earlier of the date upon which the Fraud Section and the Office are made aware of the

18
violation or the duration of the term plus five years, and that this period shall be excluded from
any calculation of time for purposes of the application of the statute of limitations.

23. In the event the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Defendant has
breached this Agreement, the Fraud Section and the Office agree to provide the Defendant with
written notice of such breach prior to instituting any prosecution resulting from such breach.
Within thirty days of receipt of such notice, the Defendant shall have the opportunity to respond
to the Fraud Section and the Office in writing to explain the nature and circumstances of such
breach, as well as the actions the Defendant has taken to address and remediate the situation, which
explanation the Fraud Section and the Office shall consider in determining whether to pursue
prosecution of the Defendant.

24. Inthe event that the Fraud Section and the Office determine that the Defendant has
breached this Agreement: (a) all statements made by or on behalf of the Defendant to the Fraud
Section and the Office or to the Court, including the attached Statement of Facts, and any testimony
given by the Defendant before a grand jury, a court, or any tribunal, or at any legislative hearings,
whether prior or subsequent to this Agreement, and any leads derived from such statements or
testimony, shall be admissible in evidence in any and all criminal proceedings brought by the Fraud
Section and the Office against the Defendant; and (b) the Defendant shall not assert any claim
under the United States Constitution, Rule 11(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule
410 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other federal rule that any such statements or
testimony made by or on behalf of the Defendant prior or subsequent to this Agreement, or any
leads derived therefrom, should be suppressed or are otherwise inadmissible. The decision
whether conduct or statements of any current director, officer, or employee, or any person acting

on behalf of, or at the direction of, the Defendant, will be imputed to the Defendant for the purpose
19
of determining whether the Defendant has violated any provision of this Agreement shall be in the
sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the Office.

25. The Defendant acknowledges that the Fraud Section and the Office have made no
representations, assurances, or promises concerning what sentence may be imposed by the Court
if the Defendant breaches this Agreement and this matter proceeds to judgment. The Defendant
further acknowledges that any such sentence is solely within the discretion of the Court and that
nothing in this Agreement binds or restricts the Court in the exercise of such discretion.

Public Statements by the Defendant

26. The Defendant expressly agrees that it shall not, through present or future
attorneys, officers, directors, employees, agents, or any other person authorized to speak for the
Defendant make any public statement, in litigation or otherwise, contradicting the acceptance of
responsibility by the Defendant set forth above or the facts described in the Information and the
Statement of Facts. Any such contradictory statement shall, subject to cure rights of the Defendant
described below, constitute a breach of this Agreement, and the Defendant thereafter shall be
subject to prosecution as set forth in Paragraphs 22-25 of this Agreement. The decision whether
any public statement by any such person contradicting a fact contained in the Information or the
Statement of Facts will be imputed to the Defendant for the purpose of determining whether it has
breached this Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the Fraud Section and the Office. If the
Fraud Section and the Office determine that a public statement by any such person contradicts in
whole or in part a statement contained in the Information or the Statement of Facts, the Fraud
Section and the Office shall so notify the Defendant, and the Defendant may avoid a breach of this
Agreement by publicly repudiating such statement(s) within five business days after notification.

The Defendant shall be permitted to raise defenses and to assert affirmative claims in other
20
proceedings relating to the matters set forth in the Information and the Statement of Facts provided
that such defenses and claims do not contradict, in whole or in part, a statement contained in the
Information or the Statement of Facts. This Paragraph does not apply to any statement made by
any present or former officer, director, employee, or agent of the Defendant in the course of any
criminal, regulatory, or civil case initiated against such individual, unless such individual is
speaking on behalf of the Defendant.

Zi. The Defendant agrees that if it or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries or
affiliates issues a press release or holds any press conference in connection with this Agreement,
the Defendant shall first consult the Fraud Section and the Office to determine (a) whether the text
of the release or proposed statements at the press conference are true and accurate with respect to
matters between the Fraud Section and the Office and the Defendant; and (b) whether the Fraud

Section and the Office have any objection to the release or statement.

21
Complete Agreement

28. This document states the full extent of the Agreement between the parties. There
are no other promises or agreements, express or implied. Any modification of this Agreement
shall be valid only if set forth in writing in a supplemental or revised plea agreement signed by all

parties.
AGREED:
ERICSSON EGYPT LTD.:

 

Date: [T-7le AF

FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE:

Date: \l [6 14

Date: | Qa (9

By:

By: Ly LEE

  

 

 

Xaviei ~
Senior Vice President

Chief Legal Officer
Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson

 

. Cheryl J. Searbaro
Joshua A. Levine
Diana C, Wielocha
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
Outside Counsel for Telefonaktiebolaget
LM Ericsson

ROBERT A. ZINK

Chief, Fraud Section

Criminal Division

United States Department of Justice

0. .

Andrew Gentin

Acting Assistant Chief
Michael Culhane Harper
Trial Attorney

BY:

 

GEOFFREY S. BERMAN
United States Attorney
Southern District of New York

BY: _ !
David Abramowicz CY
Assistant United States Attorney

BY: (doin hip rasa

“Audrey Straziss
Deputy U.S_Atorney
EXHIBIT 1
CERTIFICATE OF CORPORATE RESOLUTIONS

A copy of the executed Certificate of Corporate Resolutions is annexed hereto as “Exhibit
 

s
S

 

 

 

ERICSSON
Minutes of the Extra-Ordinary General Agila!) aS Aalall Ayreall pleig| plane
Assembly Meeting of Ericsson Egypt Ltd Mhasl Cosel CrgauSs} AS pail

 

Held on 23/11/2019 Ba.gaae Al ginwe CNS AS

eV VA/VA/TY Fey lh babaiall

On Saturday, dated 23/11/2019 precisely | oi 4 at © 14/1 5/ Y¥ Gal gall Gall a gs dA

at 11:00 a.m. the Extra-Ordinary General | 4ptell _¢ 4uclall 4yreall Cordei) Laliwe 150+ AeLull

Assembly Meeting held at the Company’s | — 4,S3 4. ,8Ib B86/7A © ad) aiid! (fle ia 48 pill

domicile located at building B86/7A — | —ws!x—all 4S) pee Ga bl YA shSiL

Smart Village — Kilo 28 Cairo Alex desert | 4S_-ll yrs (0 ga gall d geal cle Ly lid 5 3 jal!

road Giza, by virtue of the invitation sent | sin dled) diygh Salut lly lS ll coll

by the Company's manager to the Lac Yl J gam Lge era gally GibiLuall oil yo / stall

Shareholders and to the General Authority
for Investment "GAFI", and to the Auditor
of the Company, in which the herein below
agenda was included.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 

 

 

The meeting was attended by : 104 US gldiny! jon ad,

1. Mr. Sameh Shokry Abdel-Aal Ahmed, AS peal pyro veal Mell ase (5 Sb eales /aguall -1
Manager

2. Mr. Amgad Adly Said Atrees, Manager AS pall gyno - Gay fie aye slic saad /auall 1

3. Dr. Mona Mohamed Naga, representing | Lisi AS 3S Shoe - Lai dane Cin oy gSall -1
Telefonaktiebolageit Ericsson LTD 1023985 Gia gar 6 (62 gaell 0 gsSy 9!) Cus) puis
by virtue of a proxy.

4, Mr. Hisham Adel Hassan, repre . [a P45 tt Stes Gyan Gale plitia / all -€
AktiebolagetAulis by virtue off proxy—. 298i Gia ya) cba yrnall

5. Mr. Ahmed Sami Saad Mofitdsser, obi SIWMEAY (ye Lin ghe puntiie tem ceols eal /asull 0
behalf of Mr. Wael Sakr Mi i 4 Sibluos ple cial ye ple reas jis

Amer (PWC) , the Legal ja gs /s 02138 Se gt 318 UasOly

 

 

virtue of a proxy. oT,
6. From the General Authdsi OT et ACIS. alll Amd nee ¢ slat eZ! Abell Aargl Gag - 1
Investment: No one attend the me ing > sl pes

 

Mr. Sameh Shokry Abdel-Aal Ahmed, the | -  2i hell ae 6 Sh cabs /apull pig! Cul od
Company's manager was head of the 10 US Adatyos cet) 9 AS tilly n.6
meeting and he nominated the following:

Elation) Guniy Ou ic Cal quay! 15 14 ! ull Cypal
(oS, |
Chairman of the , f f faditor: At Vote Reviser Secretar
: i pt
ATE . ey Cots Ogee) a Ne
Ke t —% a _

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Le ON oF 5, whet nie! lo / 18 oa LX

f op 4 hie As ee 5 < -

,> . re Yr S, fei a : 7
ja " F o Ne cy = ea \ ’
(c heal gy Me on Page’ | of 8 - ; ee 7
Eri piLimited Co. Pe a seeped anal comma Cy gee gl AS pt

20,Box 27 - 12677 Cair ; Egypt we Zag pas vgpalill WOW=TV sas gaa

wile e, KVL28:< / Alex. Desert Rd., Bae ae dike labs

Bldg: aH). ~ ; poe
wwareeeap ge slorsall jah) / jure Ga zh

(Me ie
 

i
Se

 

 

 

 

Reviser

ERICSSON
M. Mohamed Mustafa EL Mongi  , a
Secretary of the meeting aos 3
Mrs. Passant Ahmed Mortada, Votes Ngee jylb  - gee ys Sea) GE
Reviser L a
Mr. Ashraf Madbouly Abdel Hamid, Votes Cl geal jy ayant ie pl gte ah pl ad

 

The attendants approved unanimously the
above nominations and the Company's
auditor together with the votes revisers
reviewed all the invitation procedures and
announced that the total capital shares
represented in the meeting has reached
100%.

/dgual) al8 a8 Clad sill obe ¢ Lea Yh Azreall sal ay
sl | Mell Qaneall ¢ pane (yf Lile| 8 ge2l 450 93
9) ++ chy glee 65 Ju

 

The Company's auditor announced that the
quorum required for the validity of the
meeting is reached, therefore Mr. Sameh
Shokry Abdel-Aal Ahmed, Head of the
Meeting declared the validity of the
meeting according to the law.

lel pa} Azad yey Lal Coal yo /apaall La of reas
Aacal p DUN Giluaill il gi Addo y gE Leia DU 8 geal Aya 93
deal Stall ase (5 Si cals /sguall Gel ai ¢Lciay!
gill Wu diac Flin Yl Guy

 

Therefore, the head of the meeting
inaugurated the meeting by welcoming the
attendance and proposed the agenda where
it was discussed in details including the
following:

eases Guay Cet el oat 38) ¢le ,
ce Quest hy Gait pte Geciiicla

 

First: Discussing the appointment of Mr.
Xavier Dirk B. Dedullen , Belgium
Nationality, Director of the Company.

« ulgad a Aye yp asily fara Gees Atle Syl
AS yall Iysae (Saabs Assia

 

Second: Discussing the appointment-of_|
Ms.Laurie Elizabeth Waddy Franké >}.

pig Sia apy Conbl C694 /aaguall Gaed Addls sul

 

 

 

 

United States of America Nationality; Ne ‘ ASE Vase ¢ ASya) Auta
Director of the Company. i] \f
Third: Discussing the ie ar ik J sie cye (VY 911) cysialall ye Adslic 1G
Articles no. 11&12 of sie | icles of A
Association.

ELaiay) uty al gaa) 15U8

 

Chairman of

 

 

 

Vote Reviser

 

 

 

      

raved [g0. L.'
PSOYST? iro, A.R. Egypt

Grant Vilage, Wi 28 - Calro / Alex. Desert Rd.,

7” Bidg. B86 (A7)

www.ericsson.com

 
  

 

spp d aia crsl 6 peal 2S pb

La gall june Ly gpa Bala VOVVANY sty Gy tine
ZSall Gall VA LSI

psloriall il / yuan Gia

(W) AN = ce

 
 

Bidig>
wwvw.t

Z
B

ERICSSON

 

 

All attendants approved unanimously on
the following:

sill ple Cycle plop, Flaig'y! hu

 

 

First: Approving the appointment of Mr.
Xavier Dirk B. Dedullen , Belgium
Nationality, Director of the Company.

« Cyl a3 ys pail asad Gand cle ail yall Yul Nl
4S yall | pre (Saal Auusial|

 

 

Second: Approving the appointment of
Ms.Laurie Elizabeth Waddy Franke ,
United States of America Nationality,
Director of the Company.

a a Re ee ey shit

 

Third: Approving the amendment of
Articles no. 11&12 of the Articles of
Association.

aac (yo (VV 541) Csisleall Jared le 42 gall 2 LMG

 

4S yaa! |

 

 

 

Article (11 ):BeforeAmendment

oil) Jud: (11) Balad

|

 

The management of the company shall be
assumed by managers apointed by the
General Assembly from the Partners or
outside, and the Assembly has appointed
the following Messers:

Cae Ce dala Aaron agiaed Oy ye AS dl 3 yf! sls |
-boLull Aazoal! Crise ay le _pe ys 5! lS pall |

 

Assia gutless ul sile Ely 4) Ggies /apull 44

 

 

 

Ahmed, Egyptian Nationality,
the company, residing at Bui
B, 28 Alex Desert Road,
Giza.

m (iii ge.)

1. Mr. Sten Erik Mathias Johansson,

Swedish Nationality, Manager of the | ~ ay tual ib ashe g ¢ AS All yas gang
company, residing at building B86/7A — | >= ape Jal YA ghStLs — 4,8all 4 all: B86/7A
Smart Village — Kilo 28 Cairo Alex desert Boge — walyanall 4284!
road, Giza.

2. Mr. Sameh Shokry Abdel: coast La se gS ealn/ apn LY

ea 4S AlN yan - Assia}
sisi) 483

+ #

 

3. Mr. Amgad Adly

=

/ trees,
Egyptian Nationality, residing ee ii sl A gsbu LM ety sitll wi play

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. 86 B, 28 Alex uk hall — ASS A pall — co gl panall 42 3 yah |
| SmartVillage, Giza.
eldiayl Gusiy CalLuad) Q8l po ah qua! 154 pall yaad
/3 ry 1, Vote Reviser Sevreta
Bf 2) Cre ar) Sa
@

    
 
 
 

257 Cairo, AR. Egypt
eis KM 38 - Cairo / Alex. Desert Rd.,
Bidg. B86 (A7)
www.ericsson.com

 

SON 2 “a eal “fs Z
as eg

cpp dala cul Ogos] Bt
dusyall uae Gy gpaps Ryall WOVV-YV spy Gustine
GSAN dal YA glStl

dhyana eysSel / pon Gosh

(IY) AV = eit

era rea PT

 

 
 

Ss
S

ERICSSON

 

 

 

 

The Managers declare that, there are no
judgments have issued against them with a
penalty of felony or misdeaminor of moral
tarbitude or a penalty of those stated in
articles (89), (162), (163), (164), of the law
No. 159/81, during the precedent years of
their appointment (unless they have been
rehabilitated) as well as they declare that
they are not working for the government or
the public sector.

 
 

abies Atlin’ alSal _jsine Gi al aa a

La gall Cpe Aging gh G pil Alas dai | Aylin 4a shes
(VUE) (VT CY UY) (AA) Sl pall 8 Leal 2 peal
Ci) gias SILA ELIS 96 VAAN Atul 04 aS) ysilall y«
aeiley ( pd ste! pagal} 25 28 OS al Le) pgised le ALA

lec! g-Undy gf alall ¢Uaills de Sally slon Y

 

 

 

Article (11):AfterAmendment

cjussill daaz(1 1) odball

 

 

 

The management of the company shall be
assumed by managers apointed by the
General Assembly from the Partners or
outside, and the Assembly has appointed

cys ya Lala Ageaall gin’ (yy do AS pal 6 Nal ol yd
solall Areal! Cage ay Aye Gye of olS pl

 

 

the following Messers:

 

1. Mr. Sten Erik Mathias Johansson,
Swedish Nationality, Manager of the
company, residing at building B86/7A —
Smart Village — Kilo 28 Cairo Alex desert
road, Giza.

Taadal cGy p aad ga ul tle cy} gis /apull
B86/7A. & eh) cotta! cc Ania y « AS pall Lyne esas
dy jiS oa) pene Got ple Ul VA glSILy — Sal 4 ally

3 jell _— 63) jaeall

 

2. Mr. Sameh Shokry Abdel-Aal
Ahmed, Egyptian Nationality, Manager of
the company, residing at building B86/7A
_ Smart Village — Kilo 28 Cairo Alex
desert road, Giza.

pane cand DLall at GS Galan / apn s
cei) Ned pay — AS pull | ie - Ay ouiall
pees hh Uyl YA sh SIL — 4 Sal 44 pally BB6/7A

Bjsall — 6 gh panall Ay aS!

 

 

 

3. Mr. Amgad Adly Said Atrees,s
Egyptian Nationality, Manager of ft |.

  
 

: apie ape plac aad / spall Y
de, sf cael ae Sal whe
a cs aby citell (65 ppiey — AS pill Thane
23155 Kul pure iy yh Jyh YA gSlly — 483
ta
2 cS

Pr

4g

ae
t

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ng oe ed ms
?

 
 
  
 

ae

  
 

Sréart Village, KM 28 - Cairo / Alex. Desert Rd.,
Bidg, B86 (A7)
www.ericsson.com

ec Page 4 of 8

company residing at building B86/
Smart Village — Kilo 28 Cairo Alex de i bjel— |
road, Giza. : -
‘ 7
" a we |
Staal) cil ys Tegel 158 “pall Cpa | |
Agee Bae
/¢/Audit oy) Vote Reviser eo x. |
i zg es © soe) Cand
a pive ~[s Da :

veep d sind cul bgSso! Be

La pall poe Lyogar: Byalal \WOVV—YV stays Sytem
USall Lyall VA LS

sloasall sSul / jue deb

(IV) AV = ge
 

s
S

 

 

ERICSSON
4. Mr. Xavier Dirk B. Dedullen, Asis! ¢ Gut pw co ys nil) Jal
Belgium Nationality, Manager of the

company, residing at building B86/7A —
Smart Village — Kilo 28 Cairo Alex desert
road, Giza.

Pal
B86/7A. aby cetzall (gd daiiey ¢ Spall Pare « San
AuytS os! pooe Gah gl YA ght — 483i Ayal

Bal) — (So) paca

 

5. Ms.Laurie Elizabeth Waddy Franke ,
Uited States Of America Nationality,
Manager of the company, residing at
building B86/7A — Smart Village — Kilo
28 Cairo Alex desert road, Giza.

dassiall «Sid caly Costhall sro [sass 0
B86/7A G ply cciuall (58 desing « AS pall Iyre AG pel
AayiS oo) yncoe Gay Jol VA gists — 483) Aah

Bjsall — col yparall

 

The Managers declare that, there are no
judgments have issued against them with a
penalty of felony or misdeaminor of moral
tarbitude or a penalty of those stated in
articles (89), (162), (163), (164), of the law
No. 159/81, during the precedent years of
their appointment (unless they have been
rehabilitated) as well as they declare that
they are not working for the government or
| the public sector.

pbaae Alia’ alse] jou Sau al ath cayrall piss
Cilagiall Cpe Asgies gf api Abie data of Alin digi,
AV VEJ(VIN)E(VTY)(AA) abgall CoB Ugsle agaaiall
Cilgh os DLs eLlbg VAAY Adu OF aby cypiliall (0
tiles ( pasliiel egal) ay a8 OS al Le) poised (cle AapLul

Lec) ¢ Unis of plall ¢ Unilly gf LagSatls yglens Y

 

Article (12):Before Amendment

garth Jad (1 ¥) oaLall

 

Powers of the Company's Management:

The Directors represent the Company in its
transactions with third party, and they
jointly in this regard have the broad powers
necessary to manage the Company and deal
with its name, and Mr. Sten Erik Mathias

Ahmed, and Mr. Amgad Adly Said Atree
Company; by virtue of joint signature fot

any two of them, with respect
representing the Company before labor

Johansson, Mr.Sameh Shokry Abdel-Aal |

S
are entitled to sign on behalf of i 4)

to }

AS jai 3 jlo) Cilla

Cyrcing agly yall ao idle (68 4S pill Gu pall Sieg
holed 4S p20 Blo 40 00) GuUball ssuoll laa 8
/duall 9 6p ganile ge Coltle dh) ysie /dgull Leanale |
goal 3 hel Oak te ee

  

cea
Medi is. Laie cat sid yea
easily delay) Cunldl,

“spall Is

SLAY " lad = aa ee alal
peers Ay y gqem JAI GUS pl 5 Ane Sell Cilgall Leadall

 

Cal qua} | 58 alll Cyal

 

 

 

Vote Reviser

ple fot <<

ad

at

 

 

 

 

yp
iro / Alex. Desert Rd.,

Smart Village, KM 28
Bldg. B86" (A7)
www.ericsson.com

oo

~~
pp died cued Opa Sb
all eee Layee BAU! VTOW ATV ta yy Syste
&S3H Gail VA shSil
cal ascall bil / juore 52 2b
(WW) AN = ne

34 : :
ey dee
of 8 —~ :

   

 

 
 

 

ERICSSON

 

 

offices, social insurance, chamber of
commerce, passports authority, trafic
departments, customes and representing the
Company before justice, and to sign offers,
suggestions presented to governmental
entities and companies within Arab
Republic of Egypt with respect to sell and
install Ericsson's products. Besides, they
are entitled to sign contracts concluded by
the Company inter Company agreement
and selling the assets of the Company, its
movables and cars and to sign on the
priliminary and final contracts before the
real estate registeration offices and in
opening banking accounts and conducting
negotiations with them to sign loans
contract concluded by the Company, and
representing the Company before justice
and third party and they are entitled to
delegate to third party in whole or in part of
the said capacities. Managers shall perform
their duties for unspecified period.

aS 5 ccyguSy p) Cl athe LS shy ay Sy lly 4

japdall cole gl 94S pl Lea pS call a yinll 08 |

gral easy 4a all AS yt 9 GAS NN Gy LSAT
AaslaisyV > gall gle QoS sill y gal las y Ley slbe y AS il
ppd GLa eid g cg jLbell sq ll its aLal Asilgill s
cetll Gay pill age le ql silly Lens Lye sLiilly el gill
all AS pstll uted y ld (58 paell ying pl AS all ee
Le pyaas sh DS cod peel car yd Go pals sitlly eLacll

Sodgine ye baal Legdilles yy yrall pilay 8

   
 

 

Article (12) After amendment

seit) aa4 (1 ¥) oslell

 

Powers of the Company's Management:
The Directors represent the Company in its
transactions with third party, and they
jointly in this regard have the broad powers
with its name, and Mr. Sten Erik Mathias
Johansson, Mr.Sameh Shokry Abdel-Aal
Ahmed, andMr. Amgad Adly Said Atrees,
are entitled to sign on behalf of the
Company; by Virtue of joint signature for
any two of them, with respect to
representing the Company before labor
offices, social insurance, chamber of

 

-4§ yall 6 lal als
Cyrene agly oll ge Ueiidle (8 4S pall Oy yaall ies
head» AS pAM) Bylo ej catbabal gauall laa (8
Jrpall 9 sy gatla ge alte Ay Ofie /auully eed

 

gigs olds AS 2 Ge US gill Sede ae

     

Carll tS ate EW filed ga Loge Quit! is dl ate

My
\

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cab gaat jul” pull Cysal
Vote Reviser ee
Lo» fp AL { a = ss

* ° ae >
<4 iw ——_ y / ae

pep dated oo 1 SS

Ray yall june Ly pean Bali VYCYV-YY 5 anys Ggtieo

Lsill Gall YA gLil

wsluoll HyysiSul / pros Gaye
(IV) AY = eee
 

gs
eS

ERICSSON

 

 

necessary to manage the Company and deal
commerce, passports authority, trafic
departments, customes and representing the
Company before justice, and to sign offers,
suggestions presented to governmental
entities and companies within Arab
Republic of Egypt with respect to sell and
install Ericsson's products. Besides, they
are entitled to sign contracts concluded by
the Company inter Company agreement
and selling the assets of the Company, its
movables and cars and to sign on the
priliminary and final contracts before the
real estate registeration offices, and in
opening banking accounts and conducting
negotiations with them to sign loans
contract concluded by the Company, and
representing the Company before courts

and third party and they are entitled to
delegate to third party in whole or in part of
the said capacities. Each of Mr. Xavier
Dirk B. Dedullen, and Ms.Laurie Elizabeth
Waddy Franke individually are authorized
to sign all documents and declarations
issued by the Company to third p I

  

administrative or judicial
any responsibility on any ‘of the. Directors
erowing out of the signature~on the
documents for the content of what, they

eaSiny

 
  
 
  
  

casa le qisll Land gelaill ald 4S pil
Jala CAS yilly Aye Sall Cilgall Ceska) Ctal sY g
Cilatle GuS sig aay Ghia dlls Ay pall poe 4) seen
eos gill AS pl Lee yd (gill a ghell Gast Sy «Oyu!
ASEAN CNS pally GIS AN Quy GLELGY! 5 agit! le
cle absillly Lgl jluny Ugi¥ sling 4S 8] Opel any
elig (gMaalI sql alse plal Atlgall y Alay! a siall
ago le adsilly lero Ua sliilly Asad Gal GhLaall
cael AIS G8 yell Uy gly AS AN Lge 8 All Guill
sal zag 9d Ga pgly eluzill Lal AS yall eed Ga eels
hye pul 5 / apall Ge Sly « 989 Le Gary gl US
Cp yle Sil of aly Cal jl Gos) Famally oer
eyed gil GI MWy lata) gle gill Ga
dallas col ASL fl Gewati (ily sell cdleal 4S pil
gh Agnes ge cst elal ells GIS el pur gic Aah piually 5!
isl gle Alpi qoish (yya ally Aglind 9) Ay al Ain!
nels 42 yo Lad SLAY! le Gud gall gl on eral
aig Ga agly « yall gf clusill alel 4S ya ied Ga
Lagitlle y cy ysrall pilus ¢ 98 Le yzary gh US 8 pel
pd gine ye bial

 

 

elaisY! Gay

Clea! 154 pull Cisal

 

Chairman of the

 

 

 

Vote Reviser Secreta gan

 

 

 
  

Ericson Egypt Limit
PO.Box 27 - 12577 Cajro, A.R. Egypt

Smart Village, KM 28 - Gairo / Alex. Desert Rd.,
Bidg. B86 (47)
www.ericsson.com

 

Page 7 of 8

Poe
aa AAD 2
so wt! oy = |

speped Stead cual Gps | Bt

Aas yall penal yqgege Jalal VOVY—YV aay Gyn
USL sl YA gLSil

ssl panall & jaiSul / pee Gaye

(W) AVS = ge

 

 

 
 

 

 

ERICSSON

 

 

before courts and third parties, and they are
entitled to delegate to third party in whole
or in part of the said capacities. Managers
shall perform their duties for unspecified
period.

 

The shareholders has authorized Nassef
Law Office: Ms. Alaa Zakaria Mohamed,
Mr. Khaled Abd El Basset Abd El Aal
Swelam, Mr. Hesham Adel Hassan, Mr.
Gamal Salem Ibrahim, and Mr. Mohamed
Abdallah Mohamed, solely to take the
necessary action in order to authenticate the
minutes from GAFI and to sign on the
amended Articles of Association in the
notary office and to mark the minutes in the
Commercial registry and the commercial
chamber.

C4 NS rolslaall Cawols Ss /oaLull elS_ pall U2 98 8,
aye doula alla /SLA y creas LS) oT Sat
Lea /SEY 5 Quen Gabe alias ALLY y aly gus JLall
8 ON pile creas dilage Lene (LY y cays! ja! alls
Joveae sLiaie Y 4a SY) 4g gill Stel a Wi Lals Slag
Set Abad gg yee Asha 5 Fala 4peeal
wie te eof pills Asia » onli! 9 CS pill daline
Aalel dyeoall ponies tilly og lial! jest all Jyaxill

Ag teil 4a all's oc Lill Juul a dyslell et

 

As the agenda was completely reviewed at
this point, the Head of the meeting
adjourned the meeting at 11:30 a.m of the

vai g Lay! Gai gle! JueW Jyia Gi shill i,
seg add Lali) VY deLull cals ¢ Lats Yl

 

 

 

 

same day.

Canvassers eu! eee See sare Sl gual 15 18
Ziv Teo '"5 Z.. :

Secretary fy Se Eleia Yl jus cyral

z | ped oe! 6
Auditor : Lull ily.
gles
Chairman cleia Yl ui)

 
   

 

 

 

I am Sameh Shokry Abdel-Aal ee (aS [C2
ad (ty fs
| :

the head of the meeting deci
responsibility for all content of the minutes
of the meeting and the proceedings m front
of third party shareholders, partners, GAFI
and free Zones

    

we egal Glial y lhisu

Dull

 

 

Chairman

 

7 Y oe

cleia yl Gut

 

 

Ericsson Egypt Limited Co. L.L. Page 80

PO.Box 27 - 12577 Cairo, A.R. Egypt

Smart Village, KM 28 - Cairo / Alex. Desert Rd.,
Bidg. B86 (A7)

www.ericsson.com

fs

 

AS. Ua VA gL
SSlprvall & sil / joma 5a yb
(IV) AY = pine
 

 

jen eneneamneoag

 

short SY Aolal Aight
85231 GlaLitly
AGoilat 5 95ct) 6 led
CUS A319 purl 5 gids Ay 5S Lt) 6 aM

   

 

  

t
MS51301131K

ISO 9001 REGISTERED

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

a at aerennn pee tere Gin 4 (0B) abba) eeertrtiessenrntnenetcescsntnesnesenredyces eho ahn: Ae. .fhina / i J3l
Patt St att Gata By pie guid de> Coaslttl Ly bso gy. «| geese}

a..c = p8dend Nate bag) Ray pl tt @uslellys. a eouies
pall GloLIN 9 slew SM Auolell ag pals Aaa glawe lal 6934 midge Cd LISy Ys VN \\/08 ees eae

Pty Vv kv shee + peal pial 9 agli od ygte ctilyy

 

 

 

 

 

aes gegen ( sees ssetnssssstnecevssessessinnsaaees a, Slices! i> 90s (ree Mos}f- Jog y pats peer yl Skis dns ALP 9
". WW \\ 1 So 1 easly Rigel pucatty TAR NA ($0 f)0p (Stee aly
tidal puttie 1895
posal Sebald Rerai

 

 

 

mtagll 5p pat Qataliull gum col) yucantl (Sd ase Debs! (} edd AS pail ob LoS pitt! gi yeu Liat! paar Ja! ya"
NO* fomdy GomiLadtly yahencall 5. gedcet! ait gi ut! 13 CLS pei 9 agents WL Ant git CHlanS pat y Ane Lust CLS jae gail pony
peaPANN Spates co} | plait 598 Lad Aull pao 98) JL) Gat CAL 9 Cl ahaanih pat AS pil Aah Let gid coed VAAN cial
SH gf LS aN oll LS pitt gh faa Laat! Agel go od itl tpahe AS al 989 CYL yD Spat dead 59 Le Gigemmsuc gl

Cililagd of Gilg part gl Hypa jen pesca mb ang bs Symes Sue

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
EXHIBIT 2
STATEMENT OF FACTS

The following Statement of Facts is incorporated by reference as part of the Plea
Agreement between the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section
(the “Fraud Section”), the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York
(the “Office”) (collectively, the “United States”), and the defendant Ericsson Egypt Ltd.
(“Ericsson Egypt”). Ericsson Egypt admits, accepts, and acknowledges that it is responsible for
the acts of its officers, directors, employees, and agents as set forth below. Had this matter
proceeded to trial, Ericsson Egypt acknowledges that the United States would have proven
beyond a reasonable doubt, by admissible evidence, the facts alleged below and set forth in the
Criminal Information.

LM Ericsson, Ericsson Egypt, and Other Relevant Entities and Individuals

1. From in or about and between 2000 and 2016 (the “relevant time period”),
LM Ericsson was a multinational telecommunications equipment and service company
headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. LM Ericsson maintained a class of securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and was required to file
periodic reports with the SEC. Accordingly, during the relevant time period, LM Ericsson was
an “issuer” as that term is used in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United
States Code, Section 78dd-1. LM Ericsson was a holding company operating worldwide through
its subsidiaries and affiliated entities. The subsidiaries acted as divisions of the parent, rather
than separate and independent entities. LM Ericsson and its subsidiaries, combined, have

approximately 100,000 employees.
2) During the relevant time period, Ericsson Egypt Ltd. was a majority-
owned subsidiary and operating entity of LM Ericsson. Individual employees of Ericsson Egypt
oversaw Ericsson’s operations in North East Africa, a region that included the country of
Djibouti. Ericsson Egypt’s books, records, and accounts were included in the consolidated |
financial statements of LM Ericsson filed with the SEC.

Bs During the relevant time period, Ericsson AB was a wholly-owned
subsidiary of LM Ericsson that served as one of LM Ericsson’s largest operating companies.
Ericsson AB’s books, records, and accounts were included in the consolidated financial
statements of LM Ericsson filed with the SEC.

4, “Employee 1,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was an employee of a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary
of LM Ericsson and acted as an agent of LM Ericsson. In or about and between May 2010 and
June 2012, Employee 1 was the Head of the Customer Unit in North East Africa (“CU NEA”), a
region that included Djibouti. Employee 1 left the Company in 2013. Employee | was an agent
of an “issuer,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).

a “Employee 2,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was an employee of Ericsson Egypt and acted as an
agent of LM Ericsson. In or about and between November 2010 and October 2012, Employee 2
served as the VP of New Business Development for the Horn of Africa, a region that included
Djibouti. Employee 2 reported to Employee 1. Employee 2 left the Company in 2015.
Employee 2 was an agent of an “issuer,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States

Code, Section 78dd-1(a).
6. “Employee 3,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was an employee of a wholly-owned subsidiary of LM
Ericsson and acted as an agent of LM Ericsson. In or about and between April 2010 and June
2014, Employee 3 was a high-level executive in the Middle East and Africa region, a region
which included Djibouti and Kuwait. Employee 1 reported to Employee 3. Employee 3 left the
Company in 2017. Employee 3 was an agent of an “issuer,” as that term is used in the FCPA,
Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).

Te “Employee 4,” an individual whose identity is known to the Fraud
Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was an employee of a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary
of LM Ericsson and acted as an agent of LM Ericsson. In or about and between July 2011 and
December 2012, while on a long term assignment with Ericsson Egypt, Employee 4 served as the
Customer Unit Controller for North East Africa, including Djibouti. Employee 4 reported to
Employee 3. Employee 4 left the Company in 2015. Employee 4 was an agent of an “issuer,” as
that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(a).

Foreign Entities and Officials

8. During the relevant time period, “Telecom Company,” an entity whose
identity is known to the Fraud Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was a state-owned
telecommunications company in Djibouti. Telecom Company was controlled by the Djibouti
government and performed a function that the Djibouti government treated as its own. Telecom
Company was an “instrumentality” of a foreign government, as that term is used in the FCPA,
_ Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f)(1).

9. During the relevant time period, “Foreign Official 1,” an individual whose
identity is known to the Fraud Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was a high-ranking

3
government official in the executive branch of the government of Djibouti. Foreign Official 1
had influence over decisions made by Telecom Company. Foreign Official 1 was a “foreign
official” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f)(1)(A).

10. During the relevant time period, “Foreign Official 2,” an individual whose
identity is known to the Fraud Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was a high-ranking
government official in the executive branch of the government of Djibouti. Foreign Official 2
used his influence with the government of Djibouti to affect and influence the acts and decisions
of Telecom Company. Foreign Official 2 was a “foreign official” as that term is used in the
FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-1(f)(1)(A).

11. During the relevant time period, “Foreign Official 3,” an individual whose
identity is known to the Fraud Section, the Office, and Ericsson Egypt, was the CEO of Telecom
Company. Foreign Official 3 had influence over decisions made by Telecom Company. Foreign
Official 3 was a “foreign official” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code,
Section 78dd-1(f)(1)(A).

Third Party Agents and Consultants

12. During the relevant time period, “Consulting Company,” an entity whose
identity is known to the Fraud Section, the Office, and Friesson Egypt, was a private consulting
company that was formed in Djibouti. Consulting Company was registered to the spouse of

Foreign Official 2, and Foreign Official 2 acted as a representative of Consulting Company.

Overview of the Djibouti Bribery Scheme
13. In or about and between 2010 and 2014, LM Ericsson, through certain of
its agents, including Ericsson Egypt, Ericsson AB, Employee 1, Employee 2, Employee 3,
Employee 4, and others knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed with others to corruptly
provide approximately $2,100,000 in bribe payments to, and for the benefit of, foreign officials
in Djibouti, including Foreign Official 1, Foreign Official 2, and Foreign Official 3, in order to
secure an improper advantage in order to obtain and retain business with Telecom Company and
to win a contract valued at approximately €20,300,000 with Telecom Company (the “Telecom
Company Contract”).

14. In order to conceal the true nature of the approximately $2,100,000 in
bribe payments, Employee 2 completed a draft due diligence report that failed to disclose the
‘spousal relationship between the owner of Consulting Company and Foreign Official 2. Further,
certain agents of LM Ericsson caused Ericsson AB’s branch office in Ethiopia to enter into a
sham contract with Consulting Company and to approve fake invoices in order to further conceal
the bribe payments.

15. In furtherance of the scheme, conspirators, including Employee 2 and
Foreign Official 2, used U.S.-based email accounts to communicate with each other and other
individuals about the scheme.

16. In addition, the $2,100,000 in bribe payments that LM Ericsson, through
certain of its agents, including Ericsson AB, ERICSSON EGYPT, and an employee of
ERICSSON EGYPT made and caused to be made to Consulting Company were routed into and

out of correspondent bank accounts at financial institutions in New York, New York.

Details of the Djibouti Bribery Scheme

5
17. Specifically, in or about May 2010, Telecom Company informed Ericsson
AB that Telecom Company was planning to modernize the mobile networks system in Djibouti,
and that Ericsson AB was selected to participate in a tender for the business.

18. Subsequently, in or about 2010, Employee 2 informed Employee 1 that
Ericsson AB could win the Telecom Company Contract if Ericsson AB paid bribes to
government officials in Djibouti.

1), Subsequently, in or about 2010, Employee 1 and Employee 2 travelled to
Djibouti to meet with Foreign Official 2 and Foreign Official 3. During this trip, Foreign
Official 2 informed Employee 1 that Foreign Official 1 needed to be paid a bribe of €1,000,000,
a portion of which would be passed along to Foreign Official 3. In return, Ericsson AB could
win the Telecom Company Contract.

20. After the trip to Djibouti, in or about July 2010, Employee 1 informed
Employee 3 that Ericsson AB could win the Telecom Company Contract if it paid bribes to
Djibouti government officials. Employee 3 instructed Employee | to ensure that the bribe
payments were tied to other costs associated with the Telecom Company Contract.

D1 On or about October 25, 2010, Ericsson AB responded to the tender and
submitted its bid to Telecom Company.

Des On or about May 11, 2011, Telecom Company awarded the Telecom
Company Contract to Ericsson AB, a contract valued at approximately €20,300,000.

23. On or about June 16, 2011, Ericsson AB’s branch office in Ethiopia and
Consulting Company signed a consulting agreement. The services contemplated in the contract

were never intended to be performed.
24. On or about June 26, 2011, Foreign Official 2 sent Employee 2 an invoice
from Consulting Company requesting payment of €1,000,000 for 5,000 hours of purported work
that was never performed.

25.  On/July 24, 2011, Employee 2 sent Employee | an email stating,
“(Foreign Official 3] is on vacation until the 28 of July so not much will happen before he gets
back... Maybe it will be better to pay the 1 M to [Foreign Official 1] and [another foreign
official] so things can be pushed from them. What do you think?” Employee 1 responded on or
about July 26, 2011, “We need to book the contract before doing any $.”

26. — Following additional delays in getting the bribe payment of €1,000,000
approved, Employee | sent a series of emails detailing the pressure Employee | was receiving
from Djibouti government officials for the bribe payments to be made.

ah On or about August 14, 2011, Employee 1 emailed Employee 4, “I got a
call from [Foreign Official 2] and he wants to know when we will wire...”

28. On August 14, 2011, Employee 1 emailed Employee 2 and Employee 4,
and others, “Gents I just got another call from [Foreign Official 2]. We need to wire the payment
within the current week.”

29. | Onor about August 17, 2011, Employee 1 emailed Employee 4 and
others, “I just got now a call from the cabinet of [Foreign Official 1]. I really need we to wire the
$”

30. Onor about August 18, 2011, Employee 1 emailed Employee 4 and
others, attaching an invoice from Consulting Company requesting the payment of €1,000,000,
writing, “Hi, please find attached the invoice signed by me. Tell me what can I do to make this

happen fast. I am getting strong pressures from [Foreign Official 1]. This is not nice.”

7
31. Onor about August 18, 2011, Employee 2 emailed Employee 1 and
Employee 4, and others, “As you said on your email below we have to pay the invoice ASAP...
Everybody in the management of [Telecom Company] & in the ministry are waiting their part of
the cake.”

32. On or about August 22, 2011, Employee 2 emailed Employee 1,
Employee 4, and others, attaching a draft due diligence report on Consulting Company. The
draft due diligence report failed to disclose the spousal relationship between the owner of
Consulting Company and Foreign Official 2.

33. On or about August 24, 2011, Ericsson AB’s branch office in Dubai
transferred approximately $1,441,050 — the approximate equivalent at the time of €1,000,000 —
to Consulting Company. Bank records show that the funds were wired through correspondent
bank accounts in New York, New York, to Consulting Company’s bank account at a bank in
Djibouti.

34. | Onor about August 29, 2011, Employee 2 emailed Employee 4 a second
invoice from Consulting Company, requesting a payment of €122,000 for 610 hours of purported
work that was never performed.

35, On or about October 27, 2011, Ericsson AB’s branch office in Dubai
transferred approximately $171,703 — the approximate equivalent at the time of €122,000 — to
Consulting Company. Bank records show that the funds were wired through correspondent bank
accounts in New York, New York, to Consulting Company’s bank account at a bank in Djibouti.

36. On or about January 27, 2012, Employee 2 sent Employee 4 a third
invoice from Consulting Company, requesting a payment of €414,000 for 2,070 hours of

purported work that was never performed.
37. Ericsson AB continued to perform on the Telecom Company contract
through 2014.

38. In or about January 2014, Ericsson AB sent an invoice to Telecom
Company A in order to receive the final payment under the Telecom Company A contract.

39. Onor about January 31, 2014, Ericsson AB received its last payment for
its performance on the Telecom Company A contract. LM Ericsson, through Ericsson AB,

earned approximately $7,000,000 in profits from the Telecom Company A contract.
