cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Sues DMB Financial, LLC for Allegedly
Violating the Telemarketing Sales Rule and Consumer Financial Protection Act

DEC 01, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) filed a
lawsuit against DMB Financial, LLC (DMB). The Bureau alleges that DMB violated the
Telemarketing Sales Rule (TSR) and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA)
in connection with its debt-settlement and debt-relief services. DMB, which has its principal
place of business in Beverly, Massachusetts, offers to renegotiate, settle, or otherwise alter
the terms of unsecured debts owed by consumers to creditors or debt collectors. The
Bureau’s complaint, filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts,
seeks an injunction, as well as redress to consumers, disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, and
the imposition of civil money penalties.

The Bureau alleges that DMB engaged in abusive and deceptive acts or practices in
violation of the TSR. These allegedly unlawful activities include requesting and receiving
fees before it performed its promised services and before consumers started payments
under any debt settlement. The Bureau also alleges that, after settling individual debts,
DMB collected fees based on increased debt amounts after enrollment rather than the
amount of each debt at the time of enrollment.

The Bureau alleges that DMB failed to disclose to consumers before enrollment when it
would make a settlement offer to creditors or debt collectors. In addition, the Bureau
alleges that DMB did not disclose the amount of money or the percentage of each
outstanding debt the consumer had to accumulate before DMB would make a settlement
offer. The Bureau alleges that DMB’s alleged TSR violations also constitute violations of the
CFPA. The Bureau further alleges that DMB misrepresented to consumers that it would not
charge fees for its services until after it settled a debt and consumers made a payment
under the settlement. The Bureau also alleges that DMB misrepresented in its contracts the
debt amount that it would use to determine its fees.

The complaint is not a finding or ruling that the defendant has violated the law.

A copy of the complaint filed in federal district court in the District of Massachusetts is
available at: https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_dmb-financial-
Ilc_complaint_2020-12.pdf lM (cfpb.gov/documents/937 1/cfpb_dmb-financial-llc_complaint
_2020-12.pdf)

 

 

HHH

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
