    
 

U.S, Department of Justice

 

United States Attorney
District of Maryland
Southern Division
Das. Soler Maslng Adres: Office Locanon DIRRCT: 307-344-4287
Assistant United States Attorney 6508) Cherrywoud Lane, Suite 200 6406 Ivy Lane. 3° Floor “MAIN: 301-344-4433
‘Dan Salemiuida gov Greenbelt MD 20770-1249 Greenbelt MD 20770-1249 FAR 301-344-4516
= June 1, 2015
Robert C. Bonsib, Esq. —
MarcusBonsib LLC De
6411 Ivy Lane, Suite 116 (ea)
Greenbelt, MD 20770 De,
dy yy "Se
Re: United States v. Daren Condrey, 26)
a i"
Criminal No. TDC-15-0336 or WBA

Dear Mr. Bonsib:

This letter, together with the Sealed Supplement, confirms the plea agreement which has
been offered to the Defendant by the United States Attomey’s Office for the District of Maryland
and the Fraud Section, Criminal Division, United States Department of Justice (“this Office”). If
the Defendant accepts this offer, please have him execute it in the spaces provided below. If this
offer has not been accepted by June 5, 2015, it will be deemed withdrawn. The terms of the
agreement are as follows:

Offense of Conviction

1. The Defendant agrees to waive indictment and plead guilty to @ one-count
criminal Information, charging him with one count of Conspiracy to Violate the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (*FCPA”) and to Commit Wire Fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371. The
Defendant admits that he is, in fact, guilty of this offense and will so advise the Court.

EJements of the Offense

2. The elements of the offense to which the Defendant has agreed to plead guilty,
and which this Office would prove if the case went to trial, are as follows:

a. the Defendant and at least one other person entered an unlawful
agreement;

b. the Defendant knowingly and willfully became a member of the
conspiracy;
 

 

c. at least one of the members of the conspiracy knowingly committed at
least one overt act; and

d. the overt act was committed to further some objective of the conspiracy.
Penalties
2. The maximum sentence provided by statute for the offense to which the

Defendant is pleading guilty is imprisonment for a term of not more than five years, supervised
release of up to three years, and a fine of not more than $250,000 or twice the gain or loss
associated with the offense. In addition, the Defendant must pay $100 as a special assessment
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3013, which will be due and should be paid at or before the time of
sentencing. This Court may also order him to make restitution pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3663,
3663A, and 3664. If a fine or restitution is imposed, it shall be payable immediately, unless,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3572(d), the Court orders otherwise.’ The Defendant understands that if
he serves a term of imprisonment, is released on supervised release, and then violates the
conditions of his supervised release, his supervised release could be revoked - even on the last
day of the term - and the Defendant could be returned to custody to serve another period of
incarceration and a new term of supervised release. The Defendant understands that the Bureau
of Prisons has sole discretion in designating the institution at which the Defendant will serve any
term of imprisonment imposed.

Waiver of Rights

4, The Defendant understands that by entering into this agreement, he surrenders
certain rights as outlined below:

a. If the Defendant had persisted in his plea of not guilty, he would have had
the right to a speedy jury trial with the close assistance of competent counsel. That trial could be
conducted by a judge, without a jury, if the Defendant, this Office, and the Court all agreed.

b. If the Defendant elected a jury trial, the jury would be composed of twelve
individuals selected from the community. Counsel and the Defendant would have the
opportunity to challenge prospective jurors who demonstrated bias or who were otherwise
unqualified, and would have the opportunity to strike a certain number of jurors peremptorily.
All twelve jurors would have to agree unanimously before the Defendant could be found guilty
of any count. The jury would be instructed that the Defendant was presumed to be innocent, and
that presumption could be overcome only by proof beyond a reasonable doubt.

e If the Defendant went to trial, the government would have the burden of
proving the Defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. The Defendant would have the right to
confront and cross-examine the government’s witnesses. The Defendant would not have to

 

' Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3612, if the Court imposes a fine in excess of $2,500 that remains
unpaid 15 days after it is imposed, the Defendant shall be charged interest on that fine, unless the
Court modifies the interest payment in accordance with 18 U.S.C. § 3612(f)(3).
 

present any defense witnesses or evidence whatsoever. If the Defendant wanted to call witnesses
in his defense, however, he would have the subpoena power of the Court to compel the witnesses
to attend.

d. The Defendant would have the right to testify in his own defense if he so
chose, and he would have the right to refuse to testify. If he chose not to testify, the Court could
instruct the jury that they could not draw any adverse inference from his decision not to testify.

e. If the Defendant were found guilty after a trial, he would have the right to
appeal the verdict and the Court’s pretrial and trial decisions on the admissibility of evidence to
see if any errors were committed which would require a new trial or dismissal of the charges
against him. By pleading guilty, the Defendant knowingly gives up the right to appeal the
verdict and the Court’s decisions.

f. By pleading guilty, the Defendant will be giving up all of these rights,
except the right, under the limited circumstances set forth in the “Waiver of Appeal” paragraph
below, to appeal the sentence. By pleading guilty, the Defendant understands that he may have
to answer the Court’s questions both about the rights he is giving up and about the facts of his
case. Any statements the Defendant makes during such a hearing would not be admissible
against him during a trial except in a criminal proceeding for perjury or false statement.

g. If the Court accepts the Defendant’s plea of guilty, there will be no further
trial or proceeding of any kind, and the Court will find him guilty.

h. By pleading guilty, the Defendant will also be giving up certain valuable
civil rights and may be subject to deportation or other loss of immigration status. The Defendant
recognizes that if he is not a citizen of the United States, pleading guilty may have consequences
with respect to his immigration status. Under federal law, conviction for a broad range of crimes
can lead to adverse immigration consequences, including automatic removal from the United
States. Removal and other immigration consequences are the subject of a separate proceeding,
however, and the Defendant understands that no one, including his attorney or the Court, can
predict with certainty the effect of a conviction on immigration status. Defendant nevertheless
affirms that he wants to plead guilty regardless of any potential immigration consequences.

Advisory Sentencing Guidelines Apply

 

ai The Defendant understands that the Court will determine a sentencing guidelines
range for this case (henceforth the “advisory guidelines range”) pursuant to the Sentencing
Reform Act of 1984 at 18 U.S.C. §§ 3551-3742 (excepting 18 U.S.C. §§ 3553(b)(1) and 3742(e))
and 28 U.S.C. §§ 991 through 998. The Defendant further understands that the Court will
impose a sentence pursuant to the Sentencing Reform Act, as excised, and must take into account
the advisory guidelines range in establishing a reasonable sentence.
Factual and Advisory Guidelines Stipulation

6. This Office and the Defendant understand, agree and stipulate to the Statement of
Facts set forth in Attachment A hereto, which this Office would prove beyond a reasonable
doubt, and set forth the following agreed-upon and disputed applicable sentencing guidelines
factors:

a. The base offense level is 12, pursuant to U.S.S.G. §§2X1.1 and
2C1.1(a)(2).

b. The offense level is increased by 2 levels, pursuant to § 2C1.1(b)(1),
because there was more than one bribe.

c. The value of the payment or the benefit received or to be received will be
established at sentencing and the offense level will be further increased, pursuant to
§§ 2C1.1(b)(2) and 2B1.1(b)(1). The offense level increase will not be less than 16 levels,
pursuant to §§ 2C1.1(b)(2) and 2B1.1(b)(1)(D, because the value of the payment is more than $1
million. Further, the offense level will not be more than 24 levels, pursuant to §§ 2C1.1(b)(2)
and 2B1.1(b)(1)(M), because the value of the benefit received or to be received will not be more
than $100 million.

d. The adjusted offense level will be established at sentencing, but will not
be less than 30 nor greater than 38.

zB This Office does not oppose a 2 level reduction in the Defendant’s
adjusted offense level, based upon the Defendant's recognition and affirmative acceptance of
personal responsibility for his criminal conduct. This Office agrees to make a motion pursuant to
U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1(b) for an additional 1 level decrease in recognition of the Defendant's timely
notification of his intention to plead guilty. This Office may oppose any adjustment for
acceptance of responsibility if the Defendant (a) fails to admit each and every item in the factual
stipulation; (b) denies involvement in the offense; (c) gives conflicting statements about his
involvement in the offense; (d) is untruthful with the Court, this Office, or the United States
Probation Office; (e) obstructs or attempts to obstruct justice prior to sentencing; (f) engages in
any criminal conduct between the date of this agreement and the date of sentencing; or (g)
attempts to withdraw his plea of guilty. The final offense level will be established at sentencing,
but will be between 27 and 35.

Zz The Defendant understands that there is no agreement as to his criminal history or
criminal history category, and that his criminal history could alter his offense level if he is a
career offender or if the instant offense was a part of a pattern of criminal conduct from which he
derived a substantial portion of his income.

8. This Office and the Defendant agree that with respect to the calculation of the
advisory guidelines range, with the exception of establishing the offense level increase for the
value of the benefit received or to be received at sentencing, no other offense characteristics,
sentencing guidelines factors, potential departures or adjustments set forth in the United States
Sentencing Guidelines will be raised or are in dispute. Ifthe Defendant intends to argue for any
factor that could take the sentence outside of the advisory guidelines range, he will notify the
Court, the United States Probation Officer and government counsel at least 14 days in advance of
sentencing of the facts or issues he intends to raise.

Obligations of this Office
9. At the time of sentencing, this Office will recommend a reasonable sentence.

10. The parties reserve the right to bring to the Court’s attention at the time of
sentencing, and the Court will be entitled to consider, all relevant information concerning the
Defendant’s background, character and conduct.

Waiver of Appeal

11. In exchange for the concessions made by this Office and the Defendant in this
plea agreement, this Office and the Defendant waive their rights to appeal as follows:

a. The Defendant knowingly waives all right, except his right to effective
assistance of counsel, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1291 or otherwise, to appeal the Defendant’s
conviction;

b. The Defendant and this Office knowingly waive all right, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. § 3742 or otherwise, to appeal whatever sentence is imposed (including the right to
appeal any issues that relate to the establishment of the advisory guidelines range, the
determination of the defendant’s criminal history, the weighing of the sentencing factors, and the
decision whether to impose and the calculation of any term of imprisonment, fine, order of
forfeiture, order of restitution, and term or condition of supervised release), except as follows:
(i) the Defendant reserves the right to appeal any term of imprisonment to the extent that it
exceeds any sentence within the advisory guidelines resulting from an adjusted base offense
level 35, and (ii) this Office reserves the right to appeal any term of imprisonment to the extent
that it is below any sentence within the advisory guidelines range resulting from an adjusted base
offense level 27.

C. Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent the Defendant or
this Office from invoking the provisions of Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 35(a), or from
appealing from any decision thereunder, should a sentence be imposed that resulted from
arithmetical, technical, or other clear error.

d. The Defendant waives any and all rights under the Freedom of
Information Act relating to the investigation and prosecution of the above-captioned matter and
agrees not to file any request for documents from this Office or any investigating agency.
 

 

Obstruction or Other Violations of Law

12. The Defendant agrees that he will not commit any offense in violation of federal,
state or local law between the date of this agreement and his sentencing in this case. In the event
that the Defendant (i) engages in conduct after the date of this agreement which would justify a
finding of obstruction of justice under U.S.S.G. § 3Cl.1, or (ii) fails to accept personal
responsibility for his conduct by failing to acknowledge his guilt to the probation officer who
prepares the Presentence Report, or (iii) commits any offense in violation of federal, state or
local law, then this Office will be relieved of its obligations to the Defendant as reflected in this
agreement. Specifically, this Office will be free to argue sentencing guidelines factors other than
those stipulated in this agreement, and it will also be free to make sentencing recommendations
other than those set out in this agreement. As with any alleged breach of this agreement, this
Office will bear the burden of convincing the Court of the Defendant’s obstructive or unlawful
behavior and/or failure to acknowledge personal responsibility by a preponderance of the
evidence. The Defendant acknowledges that he may not withdraw his guilty plea because this
Office is relieved of its obligations under the agreement pursuant to this paragraph.

Court Not a Party

13. | The Defendant expressly understands that the Court is not a party to this
agreement. In the federal system, the sentence to be imposed is within the sole discretion of the
Court. In particular, the Defendant understands that neither the United States Probation Office
nor the Court is bound by the stipulation set forth above, and that the Court will, with the aid of
the Presentence Report, determine the facts relevant to sentencing. The Defendant understands
that the Court cannot rely exclusively upon the stipulation in ascertaining the factors relevant to
the determination of sentence. Rather, in determining the factual basis for the sentence, the
Court will consider the stipulation, together with the results of the presentence investigation, and
any other relevant information. The Defendant understands that the Court is under no obligation
to accept this Office’s recommendations, and the Court has the power to impose a sentence up to
and including the statutory maximum stated above. The Defendant understands that if the Court
ascertains factors different from those contained in the stipulation set forth above, or if the Court
should impose any sentence up to the maximum established by statute, the Defendant cannot, for
that reason alone, withdraw his guilty plea, and will remain bound to fulfill all of his obligations
under this agreement. The Defendant understands that neither the prosecutor, his counsel, nor
the Court can make a binding prediction, promise, or representation as to what guidelines range
or sentence the Defendant will receive. The Defendant agrees that no one has made such a
binding prediction or promise.
 

 

 

 

Entire Agreement

14. This agreement supersedes any prior understandings, promises, or conditions
between this Office and the Defendant and constitutes the complete plea agreement in this case.
The Defendant acknowledges that there are no other agreements, promises, undertakings or
understandings between the Defendant and this Office other than those set forth in this
agreement and none will be entered into unless in writing and signed by all parties.

If the Defendant fully accepts each and every term and condition of this letter,
please sign and have the Defendant sign the original and return it to me promptly.

ANDREW WEISSMANN
Chief, Fraud Section
Criminal Division
Department of Justice

By: Sb G- La R By:

Christo opher Cestaro
Ephraim Wernick
Derek Ettinger
Trial Attorneys

Very truly yours,

ROD J. ROSENSTEIN
United States Attorney
District of Maryland

Gaull Wo. a
David I. Salem

Adam K. Ake

Michael T. Packard

Assistant United States Attorneys

 
 

T have read this agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with my attomey.
understand it, and J voluntarily agree to it. Specifically, I have reviewed the Factual and
Advisory Guidelines Stipulation with my attomey, and I do not wish to change any part of it, I
am completely satisfied with the representation of my attorney.

eee. j
Dale aren Condre'

Tam Daren Condrey’s attorney, I have carefully reviewed every part of this agreement
with him. He advises me that he understands and accepts its teyms. To my knowledge, his

 
ATTACHMENT A:
STIPULATED FAt UTED STATES v.

 

If this matter had proceeded to tial, the government would have proven the following “*r
facts beyond a reasonable doubt, The parties agree that the following facts do not encompass ail
of the facts that would have been proven had this matter proceeded to trial.

DAREN CONDREY (“CONDREY") was a citizen of the United States and resident of
Maryland. CONDREY was an owner and executive of Transportation Corporation A from in or
about August 1998 through in or about October 2014. CONDREY was the co-President of
Transportation Corporation A from in or about January 2010 through in or about October 2014.
Thus, CONDREY was a “domestic concert” and an officer, employee and agent of a “domestic
concern,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1).

‘Transportation Corporation A was United States company headquartered in Maryland,
and thus a “domestic concern,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code,
Section 78dd-2(h)(1)(B). Transportation Corporation A was in the business of providing
logistical support services for the transportation of nuclear materials to customers in the United
States and to foreign customers, These foreign customers included JSC Techsnabexport
(“TENEX”).

‘TENEX supplied uranium and uranium enrichment services to nuclear power companies
throughout the world on behalf of the government of the Russian Federation. TENEX was
indirectly owned and controlled by, and performed functions of, the government of the Russian
Federation, and thus was an “agency” and “instrumentality” of a foreign government, as those
terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, 78dd-2(h)(2).

TENEX established a wholly-owned subsidiary company located in the United States in
or about October 2010, TENAM Corporation (*TENAM”). TENAM was TENEX’s official
representative office in the United States, TENAM was indirectly owned and controlled by, and
performed functions of, the government of the Russian Federation, and thus was an “agency” and
“instrumentality” of a foreign government, as those terms are used in the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, 78dd-2(h\(2).

Foreign Official One, a national of the Russian Federation, was a Director of TENEX
from at least 2004 through in or about October 2010, and was the President of TENAM from in
or about October 2010 through in or about October 2014. Foreign Official One was a “foreign
official,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(2).
From in or about December 2011 through in or about October 2014, Foreign Official One was a
resident of Maryland.

Co-Conspirator One was an owner and executive of Transportation Corporation A. from
in or about 1998 to in of about December 2009, and a consultant to Transportation Corporation
A from in or about January 2010 through io or about 2011
Cylinder Corporation A was a company, based in Ohio, which engaged in the
manufacture of tanks and vessels for the oil and gas, nuclear, and marine markets. Cylinder
Corporation A secured contracts with TENEX to supply storage and transportation cylinders. In
or about September 2012, Cylinder Corporation A was acquired by another company
headquartered in Ohio (“Ohio Corporation”).

Between in or about 2004 through in or about 2014, in the District of Maryland and
elsewhere, CONDREY knowingly combined, conspired, confederated, and agreed with others to
commit offenses against the United States, namely to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”), in violation of 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-2, and to commit wire fraud, in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1343, all in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371. Specifically, CONDREY and other co-
conspirators, including Co-Conspirator One, agreed to make payments, and caused
Transportation Corporation A to make payments, at the direction of, and for the benefit of,
Foreign Official One in order to obtain and retain business with TENEX. Further, in order to
effectuate the bribe payments to Foreign Official One, CONDREY and other co-conspirators
obtained the money used to pay the bribes by inflating the prices Transportation Corporation A
charged TENEX for services, thereby depriving TENEX of money and property, in violation of
18 U.S.C. § 1343.

In furtherance of the conspiracy, and to effect the objects of the conspiracy, CONDREY
and other co-conspirators discussed making bribe payments with Foreign Official One in person
and via electronic mail (“email”). For example, on or about October 30, 2013, CONDREY sent
an email to Foreign Official One with the subject “LF” that attached the details of a payment that
was made in furtherance of the scheme. The terms “LF,” “lucky figure,” “cake,” and
“remuneration” were code words used by CONDREY and others to describe the bribe payments
that were promised and made to Foreign Official One.

In order to make the bribe payments to Foreign Official One, CONDREY and other co-
conspirators caused Transportation Corporation A to make payments to offshore bank accounts
at the direction of, and for the benefit of, Foreign Official One, including a wire transfer in the
amount of $77,896 from Transportation Corporation A’s bank account in Maryland on October
30, 2013, to a bank account located in Zurich, Switzerland. CONDREY knew it was wrong to
make, and agree to make, the bribe payments. CONDREY also knew that the bribe payments
were made for the benefit of Foreign Official One, and the payments were promised, and made,
in order to influence Foreign Official One in his official capacity and to secure an improper
advantage for Transportation Corporation A.

Further, as part of the conspiracy, CONDREY and other co-conspirators caused
Transportation Corporation A to increase the prices it charged TENEX by the amount of the
bribe payments promised to Foreign Official One. CONDREY and other co-conspirators sent,
and caused Transportation Corporation A to send, quotations and invoices to TENEX that hid the
cost of the bribe payments promised to Foreign Official One within the total of Transportation
Corporation A’s pricing. While keeping the bribe costs hidden from TENEX, CONDREY sent
emails to Foreign Official One regarding the amount of the bribe payments that were promised
and paid in furtherance of the scheme.
 

 

CONDREY and others also caused Transportation Corporation A to act as an
intermediary for a payment Ohio Corporation made for the benefit of Foreign Official One.
Specifically, on or about November 29, 2013, Ohio Corporation made a payment to
Transportation Corporation A in the amount of $30,900 with the understanding that
Transportation Corporation A would send the money to an account at the direction of Foreign
Official One. Shortly afterwards, on or about December 16, 2013, Transportation Corporation A
sent a wire transfer in the amount of $57,713.42 from Transportation Corporation A’s bank
account in Maryland to a bank account in Zurich, Switzerland, that included the payment Ohio
Corporation made for the benefit of Foreign Official One, minus a fee, in addition to a payment
Transportation Corporation A made for the benefit of Foreign Official One.

From 2004 through 2014, CONDREY and other co-conspirators caused Transportation
Corporation A to make bribe payments for the benefit of Foreign Official One totaling more than
$1,000,000 in association with the bribery scheme involving Transportation Corporation A.

I have read this statement of facts and carefully reviewed it with my attorney. 1
acknowledge that it is true and correct.

of Ys __ woes.

Daren Condrty——~ ss

Iam Daren Condrey’s attorney. I have carefully reviewed the statement of facts with
him.

D Robert €.{Bonsib, Esq.

ate

 
