UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COM MISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 87750 / December 16, 2019

INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 5418 / December 16, 2019

INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 33715 / December 16, 2019

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT
Release No. 4108 / December 16, 2019

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-19619

 

ORDER INSTITUTING
In the Matter of ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-
DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
TIM LEISSNER, SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
Respondent. SECTION 203(f) OF THE INVESTMENT

ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND SECTION
9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY
ACT OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND
A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

 

 

I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act’), Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act’), and Section 9(b) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act’) against Tim Leissner
(“Respondent” or “Leissner’’).
Il.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this
Order Instituting Admmistrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of
1940, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds! that:

SUMMARY

1. This matter relates to a massive corruption scheme perpetrated by Leissner while
acting as a senior executive of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (“Goldman Sachs” or the
“Company’’). Leissner, in coordination with other Goldman Sachs senior executives, authorized
and paid bribes and kickbacks to government officials in Malaysia and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi
(“Abu Dhabr’) in order to secure lucrative business for Goldman Sachs. Leissner’s actions
resulted in violations of the antibribery, books and records and circumvention of internal
accounting controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCP A”).

2. 1Malaysia Development Berhad (“1MDB’’) is a Malaysian state-owned and
controlled investment fund created to pursue projects for the economic benefit of Malaysia and its
people. Between approximately 2009 and 2014, as IMDB raised capital to fund its projects,
billions of dollars were diverted from IMDB. The diverted funds included a substantial portion of
the approximately $6.5 billion in capital that IMDB raised in 2012 and 2013 through three bond
offerings that it executed with Goldman Sachs (the “bond deals”). As part of the scheme, Leissner
and others bribed government officials in Malaysia and in Abu Dhabi to obtain and retain lucrative
business for Goldman Sachs, including the 2012 and 2013 bond deals, from which Goldman Sachs
earned approximately $600 million.

3. Leissner willfully violated Section 30A of the Exchange Act by directly
participating in the bribery scheme. He also caused Goldman Sachs’s books and records to not, in
reasonable detail, accurately or fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the company’s
assets in violation of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, and he willfully aided and abetted
violations of that Section. Additionally, Leissner willfully violated Section 13(b)(5) of the

 

' The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other
personorentity in this or any other proceeding.
Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder by knowingly circumventing what internal accounting
controls Goldman Sachs had in place in order to both advance and conceal the corrupt scheme.

Respondent

4. Tim Leissner, age 50, was employed by Goldman Sachs between April 1998 and
March 2016. Prior to his separation from Goldman Sachs, Leissner was a Participating Managing
Director, Vice Chairman of the Investment Banking Division for Asia Ex-Japan, and Chairman of
South East Asia. Leissner was a coverage banker for various clients in the Asia Ex-Japan region,
includnmg IMDB. Leissner was at all relevant times an associated person of the Company’s U.S.
registered broker-dealer and investment adviser, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC.

Related Entities

5. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (“Goldman Sachs” or the “Company”) ts a U.S.
based global investment banking, securities, and investment management firm headquartered in
New York, New York. The common stock of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Exchange Act and is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The Company is
an “issuer” within the meaning of the FCPA.

6. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (“GS&Co.”), a subsidiary of Goldman Sachs, is
registered as a broker-dealer and as an investment adviser with the Commission. GS&Co.’s
principal business operations are located in New York, New York. Leissner was associated with
GS&Co. from April 1998 until March 2016.

7. IMDB was a strategic investment and development company wholly-owned by the
Malaysian government through the Malaysian Ministry of Finance. It was formed in 2009 when
the Malaysian government took control of a municipal entity called Terengganu Investment
Authority (“TIA”). IMDB was created to pursue investment and development projects for the
economic benefit of Malaysia and its people, primarily relying on debt to fund these investments.
IMDB's development projects were focused in the areas of energy, real estate, tourism and
agribusmess. IMDB was overseen by senior Malaysian government officials, was controlled by
the Malaysian government, and performed a government function on behalf of Malaysia.

8. The Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund was an investment fund wholly-
owned by the government of Abu Dhabi. It was established by the government of Abu Dhabi
pursuant to an Emiri Decree in or around 1984 with a mandate to advance Abu Dhabi’s natural
petroleum wealth for the development of the emirate. The Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund
was overseen by senior Abu Dhabi government officials, was controlled by the Abu Dhabi
government, which appomted all the members of the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund’s
board of directors, and performed a government function on behalf of Abu Dhabi.

9, The Middle Eastern Investment Firm, a subsidiary of the Middle Eastern
Sovereign Wealth Fund, was a public jomt stock company incorporated under the laws of Abu
Dhabi.
10. Jho Low, age 38, is a Malaysian national who advised on the creation of TIA,
IMDB’s predecessor entity. Jho Low has never held a formal position at IMDB. Jho Low
nevertheless exercised significant control over IMDB during the time period relevant to this Order.
Jho Low worked as a finder and intermediary in relation to IMDB officials and other government
officials on numerous financial transactions and projects involving Goldman Sachs.

11. Roger Ng, age 47, is a Malaysian national who was employed as a Managing
Director and acted as an agent of Goldman Sachs. He worked with Leissner at Goldman Sachs
from approximately 2009 to May 2014.

12. Najib Razak, age 66, was the Prime Minister of Malaysia from 2009 to 2018 who
held a position of authority with IMDB.

FACTS

Background

13. IMDB was formed in or around 2009, when the Malaysian government asserted
federal control over TIA, which previously had been a development fund controlled by the
Malaysian state of Terengganu.

14. IMDB was created for the stated purpose of pursuing investment projects for the
economic benefit of Malaysia and its people, relying mainly on debt to support these projects.
IMDB was supervised by senior Malaysian government officials, controlled by the Malaysian
government, and performed a government function on behalf of Malaysia. Upon IMDB’s
formation, Najib Razak assumed a position of authority with IMDB. Najib Razak had the
authority to approve all appointments to, and removals from, IMDB’s Board of Directors and
IMDB’s Senior Management Team. In addition, any financial commitments by IMDB, including
investments, that were likely to affect a guarantee given by the government of Malaysia for the
benefit of IMDB or any policy of the Malaysian government, required the approval of Najib
Razak.

Malaysian Intermediary Jho Low

 

15. Low had advised on the creation of TIA, IMDB’s predecessor entity. Although he
did not hold a formal title with IMDB or the Malaysian government, Low worked as a finder and
intermediary in relation to IMDB officials and other government officials on multiple financial
transactions and projects, including transactions involving Goldman Sachs.

16. Goldman Sachs, through its participatng managing director Leissner, was retained
to provide financial advice to the government of Malaysia in connection with the 2009 federal
takeover of TIA (“Project Tiara”). Notwithstanding Low’s public denials about any involvement
with IMDB during this time, while working on this project, Leissner and other senior executives at
Goldman Sachs knew that Low worked as a finder and intermediary in relation to IMDB, and

4
began to actively work to conceal Low’s involvement in Goldman Sachs-related transactions from
others at the firm. Leissner and others, including Goldman Sachs Managing Director Roger Ng, at
the time knew that Low remained close to IMDB officials and other government officials in
Malaysia, including Najib Razak, and Abu Dhabi. During this time, Low also specifically
requested that Leissner, Ng and others conceal his involvement in Goldman Sachs’s business.

17. Goldman Sachs’s various internal FCPA and accounting controls were overseen
and enforced by its compliance function (the “Compliance Group’) and its legal department (the
“Intelligence Group”). These groups worked in conjunction with, and as part of, various Goldman
Sachs committees (“GS Committees”) in reviewing transactions for approval.

18. Goldman Sachs’s written policies required bankers who submitted transactions to
GS Committees for approval, such as Leissner, to broadly disclose information relevant to the
matters at issue, including “a full assessment of the transaction risks.” Nevertheless, while
working on Project Tiara and thereafter, Leissner selectively concealed from other employees of
Goldman Sachs, including the GS Committees and their members, that he was working with Low
as an intermediary to secure the deals. Leissner did this in an effort to avoid potential heightened
scrutiny of the bond deals by the GS Committees, the Compliance Group or the Intelligence
Group.

19. Between in or around September 2009 and in or around March 2011, Leissner and
others, including Ng, supported at least three attempts to make Low a formal client of Goldman
Sachs. Leissner and Ng supported these efforts because, in part, they believed that Low would
work to deliver lucrative business deals, including from IMDB, for the ultimate benefit of
Goldman Sachs, Leissner, Ng and others. These attempts were unsuccessful because certain
personnel within Goldman Sachs’s Compliance Group and Intelligence Group had previously
refused to approve any business relationship with Low. Their refusal was based, in part, on
concerns that these groups had concerning the source of Low’s wealth. Personnel within the
Compliance Group and the Intelligence Group communicated the rejection of Low’s application to
Leissner and others within Goldman Sachs. Notwithstanding their knowledge of the concerns that
had been raised about Low not being a suitable client for Goldman Sachs, Leissner and other
employees and agents of Goldman Sachs continued to work with Low based upon their belief that
Low would help ensure that government officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi would deliver
lucrative business deals to Goldman Sachs.

The Bond Deals

20. Later, when Goldman Sachs was retained by IMDB to assist it with three large debt
financings in 2012 and 2013 — the “bond deals” — Leissner and other senior executives of Goldman
Sachs knew that Low was playing a central role in these transactions, including by acting as an
intermediary between Goldman Sachs, IMDB and other Malaysian and Abu Dhabi government
officials. Leissner and other senior executives of Goldman Sachs also knew that Low promised to
pay bribes and kickbacks to these officials to secure IMDB business for Goldman Sachs.
21. Throughout 2012 and 2013, Leissner and other senior executives of Goldman Sachs
actively worked to obtain and retain business from IMDB for the benefit of Goldman Sachs
through the promise and payment of bribes and kickbacks to government officials in Malaysia and
Abu Dhabi using, in part, misappropriated and embezzled proceeds from the bond deals. During
this time, through the course of the scheme, Leissner and others paid millions of dollars in bribes
and kickbacks to government officials, and obtamed IMDB business for Goldman Sachs, in
particular, the three bond deals. These three bond financing transactions were referred to internally
at Goldman Sachs as “Project Magnolia,” “Project Maximus” and “Project Catalyze.”

22. Goldman Sachs’s role as underwriter for the bond deals meant that the firm would
be using its own capital to fund the initial purchase of the IMDB bonds. Accordingly, the
transactions were formally reviewed and approved by multiple GS Committees including the
Firmwide Capital Committee (“Capital Committee”). The Capital Committee’s charter states as
follows:

The Committee provides approval and oversight globally of debt-related
transactions, including principal commitments of the Firm’s capital. The
Committee aims to ensure that business, reputational and suitability standards for
underwritings and capital commitments are maintained on a global basis.

23. Although the purported purpose of the approximately $6.5 billion raised by the
three bond transactions was to support IMDB projects for the benefit of the Malaysian people,
Leissner and others instead planned and executed a scheme to misappropriate more than $2.7
billion and distribute the money as bribes and kickbacks to government officials in Malaysia and
Abu Dhabi, including but not limited to Najib Razak, as well as to other participants in the scheme
and their families, including Leissner.

Goldman Sachs Obtains Project Magnolia from Malaysian Sovereign Wealth Fund

 

24. In or around early 2012, Leissner and other senior executives of Goldman Sachs
met in Malaysia with others, including Low and other IMDB officials. A purpose of the meeting
was to discuss IMDB’s proposed purchase of a Malaysian energy company (“Malaysian Energy
Company A”) and Goldman Sachs’s preparedness to help obtain financing for the purchase.

25. During that meeting, Leissner and other senior executives of Goldman Sachs
discussed with Low the type of financial guarantee that IMDB needed to obtain for the bond
issuance to meet Goldman Sachs’s underwriting requirements. They ultimately agreedon a
guarantee from the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund. Leissner, Ng and another senior
executive of Goldman Sachs understood that Low was acting as an intermediary between IMDB,
Najib Razak and other government officials from Abu Dhabi.

26. In late February 2012, Leissner and other senior executives of Goldman Sachs met
with Low and other IMDB officials in London to discuss the proposed financing. During this
meeting, Low explained that in order to secure the guarantee from the Middle Eastern Sovereign
Wealth Fund discussed at the prior meeting with Leissner and others, they would have to pay

6
bribes and kickbacks to government officials, including to certain officials in Malaysia and Abu
Dhabi. After the February 2012 meeting, Leissner discussed this information with other senior
executives of Goldman Sachs.

27. In or around March 2012, IMDB formally engaged Goldman Sachs to be the sole
underwriter for the $1.75 billion debt financing transaction designed, in part, to pay for the
acquisition of Malaysian Energy Company A, which was guaranteed by the Middle Eastern
Sovereign Wealth Fund.

28. In or around March 2012, Leissner and certain other senior executives of Goldman
Sachs traveled to Abu Dhabi along with Low and certain other IMDB officials
to meet with officials of the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund and its subsidiary the Middle
Eastern Investment Firm to discuss the contemplated guarantee for Project Magnolia. Throughout
that time, Leissner knew Low had arranged the meetings with the officials of the Middle Eastern
Sovereign Wealth Fund and the Middle Eastern Investment Firm, and that some of these officials,
among others, would be paid bribes by Low to secure the guarantee.

29. Leissner and other senior executives of Goldman Sachs also knew that Low would
pay bribes and kickbacks to influence Malaysian officials to obtain the necessary approvals to
execute Project Magnolia for Goldman Sachs. During the months leading up to the issuance of
Project Magnolia, Leissner knew that Low enlisted IMDB officials to assist him in ensuring that
all necessary approvals were obtained from IMDB officials and others to complete the transaction,
in exchange for bribes and kickbacks to those IMDB officials.

30. In or around the end of May 2012, near the closing of Project Magnolia, Leissner
actively worked with another senior executive of Goldman Sachs and Low to divert some of the
bond proceeds that Goldman Sachs raised from Project Magnolia into the bank accounts of shell
companies that Leissner, the other Goldman Sachs senior executive and Low beneficially owned
and controlled. These individuals understood and expected to keep some of the diverted funds for
their personal use, and that other funds would be used to pay bribes and kickbacks to government
officials in Malaysia and Abu Dhabi and elsewhere in exchange for their assistance in obtaining
and retaining business for Goldman Sachs in connection with Project Magnolia.

31. On or about May 21, 2012, Project Magnolia closed, earning approximately $193
million in fees for Goldman Sachs.

32. Goldman Sachs transferred the proceeds of the Magnolia bond offering via wire to
the IMDB entity designated to receive the payment. At the time, Leissner, Low and others knew
that a large portion of the proceeds of the bond offering would be diverted to themselves and
others, including government officials, through shell companies beneficially owned and controlled
by Low, Leissner and others.

33. Goldman Sachs’s documentation of the wire transfer — including a signed payment
authorization and instruction, an executed agreement between Goldman Sachs and its client, and
the Project Magnolia offering circular (collectively, the “Magnolia Bond Documents”) — falsely

7
stated that the proceeds would be used only to pay for the acquisition of Malaysian Energy
Company A or for “general corporate purposes.” Leissner knowingly caused these records to be

false.

34. Within three months of the closing of Project Magnolia, millions of dollars of bond
proceeds were transferred through shell companies beneficially owned and controlled by Low and
other participants in the scheme into a Hong Kong bank account in the name of shell companies
incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and controlled by Leissner. Leissner also used a portion
of these funds for his personal use and enjoyment. Leissner also knew that other bond funds from
Project Magnolia were transferred through shell company accounts beneficially owned and
controlled by Low and other participants in the scheme and ultimately into accounts of shell
companies beneficially owned and controlled by Abu Dhabi government officials with influence
over the transaction.

Goldman Sachs Obtains Project Maximus from Malaysian Sovereign Wealth Fund

35. In or about May 2012, Leissner, Low and others began to plan a second bond
transaction, known internally at Goldman Sachs as “Project Maximus,” which was designed, in
part, to raise capital for IMDB to purchase a second Malaysian power generation company
(“Malaysian Energy Company B”). Leissner and certain other senior executives of Goldman
Sachs intended that Low and others would pay bribes and kickbacks to influence Malaysian and
Abu Dhabi officials to obtain the necessary approvals to execute the bond offering. The mandate
to underwrite this bond offering was also awarded by IMDB to Goldman Sachs, and it was
structured similarly to the first bond issuance but only with an indirect guarantee from the Middle
Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund.

36. Although the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund did not provide a direct
financial guarantee of the Project Maximus bonds as it had with Project Magnolia, it nevertheless
agreed to privately secure the bonds on a bilateral basis with Goldman Sachs. As with Project
Magnolia, Leissner and others continued to work with Low to acquire this business for Goldman
Sachs.

37. Leissner knew that a large portion of the proceeds of Project Maximus would be
illegally diverted to himself and others, including government officials, through shell companies
beneficially owned and controlled by Leissner and others. Leissner also knew at the time that
Najib Razak and government officials from Abu Dhabi and IMDB officials would receive money
from the proceeds of Project Maximus that passed through various shell companies beneficially
owned and controlled by himself, Low and others. Moreover, along with Low and others, it was
Leissner’s intended purpose that the payments were to flow to these government officials to
influence the officials to execute the bond transaction with Goldman Sachs. A close relative of
Najib Razak and a senior official with the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund, among others,
received some of these funds.

38. On or about October 10, 2012, Leissner participated in a GS Committee meeting
that included senior Goldman Sachs executives participatng from multiple locations globally,

8
including New York City, New York. The meeting was convened for the purpose of approving
Goldman Sachs’s role in Project Maximus. During the meeting, Leissner was directly asked
whether Low was involved in Project Maximus. Leissner told the GS Committee affirmatively
that Low was not involved in Project Maximus, though Leissner and other senior executives of
Goldman Sachs knew at the time that this statement was false.

39. Project Maximus closed on or about October 17, 2012, raising approximately $1.75
billion for the designated IMDB entity and resulting in approximately $188 million in fees for
Goldman Sachs.

AO. Leissner knew that some of the proceeds from Project Maximus were transferred by
or per Low to Leissner in furtherance of the scheme. Thereafter, Leissner, Low and others caused
some of these funds to be transferred to the accounts of IMDB officials or relatives of such
officials, or to the accounts of shell companies beneficially owned by IMDB officials, in exchange
for their assistance in obtaining and retaining business for Goldman Sachs.

4]. Goldman Sachs’s documentation of its transfer of funds to purchase the bonds —
including a signed payment authorization and instruction, an executed agreement between
Goldman Sachs and its client, and the Project Maximus offering circular (collectively, the
“Maximus Bond Documents”) — falsely stated that the bond proceeds would be used solely to pay
for the acquisition of Malaysian Energy Company B or for “general corporate purposes.” Leissner
knowingly caused these records to be false.

42. In 2012, IMDB issued a total of $3.5 billion in bonds that were underwritten by
Goldman and indirectly guaranteed by the Middle Eastern Sovereign Wealth Fund.

Goldman Sachs Obtains Project Catalyze from Malaysian Sovereign Wealth Fund

 

43. In or about November 2012, despite having raised over $3 billion in the prior 11
months, IMDB sought to raise an additional $3 billion through a bond issuance known internally
at Goldman Sachs as “Project Catalyze.” This debt financing was purportedly designed to fund
IMDB’s portion of a jomt venture with the Middle Eastern Investment Firm. Goldman Sachs was
engaged to underwrite the project in or around early 2013.

44. As they had with the two prior IMDB bond issuances, Leissner and other senior
executives of Goldman Sachs continued to work with Low as an intermediary between Goldman
Sachs, IMDB officials, Najib Razak and other Malaysian government officials. Further, although
required by internal compliance policies of Goldman Sachs, Leissner failed to disclose that (a) he
had received a portion of the funds diverted from the prior bond transactions via Low and (b) that
Leissner, Low and others paid bribes and kickbacks to IMDB officials and others who were
involved in the transactions.

45. The Project Catalyze bond issued on or about March 19, 2013, resulting in
approximately $186 million in fees toGoldman Sachs from this deal. A portion of the
approximately $3 billion raised by this bond issuance was transferred to Leissner by or at the
direction of Low.

46. Goldman Sachs’s documentation of the transaction — including a signed payment
authorization and instruction, an executed agreement between Goldman Sachs and its client, and
the Project Catalyze offering circular (collectively, the “Catalyze Bond Documents”) — falsely
stated that the bond proceeds would be used solely to fund Malaysia’s contribution to a joint
venture investment vehicle with Abu Dhabi or for “general corporate purposes.” Leissner
knowingly caused these records to be false.

Leissner and Goldman Sachs Seek to Obtain Further Business from Malaysia Post-Catalyze

47. Following the closing of Project Catalyze, through the end of 2014, Leissner and
Goldman Sachs sought, obtained and worked to execute several additional transactions with
IMDB, particularly focusing on a proposed initial public offering of IMDB's energy assets
(“Energy IPO”).

A8. Throughout the time period of these additional transactions, Leissner and other
participants in the scheme continued to pay bribes and kickbacks to certain Malaysian government
officials, including from the proceeds of the Project Catalyze bond and other 1MDB transactions,
to influence those officials to awarda role for Goldman Sachs in the Energy IPO.

49, These bribes and kickbacks included transferring millions of dollars to the accounts
of shell companies beneficially owned and controlled by IMDB officials, and transferring
approximately $1.3 million to the account of a New York jeweler to pay for jewelry for the spouse
of Najib Razak.

50. Between in or around June 2012 and October 2014, more than $200 million of the

proceeds of the three IMDB bond deals and other IMDB business was transferred by Low or at
his direction into accounts beneficially owned and controlled by Leissner.

LEGAL STANDARDS AND VIOLATIONS

 

51. Under Section 21C(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission, after making certain
required findings, may impose a cease-and-desist order upon any person who is violating, has
violated, or is about to violate any provision of the Exchange Act or any rule or regulation
thereunder, and upon any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an
act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation.

Leissner Violated Exchange Act Section 30A

 

52. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA, Section 30A of the Exchange Act, make tt
unlawful for any issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange
Act, or any employee or agent of such issuer, to make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to

10
pay, or authorization of the payment of any money, or offer, gift or promise to give anything of
value to any foreign official for purposes of influencing any actor decision of such foreign official
in his official capacity in order to assist such issuer in obtaining or retaining business for or with
any person. 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1.

53. As described above, while acting as Goldman Sachs’s employee and agent,
Leissner made use of interstate commerce by, among other things, sending wire transfers froma
foreign bank account to a U.S. bank account in furtherance of his corrupt offers and promises to
bribe foreign officials, through which Leissner intended that the officials would use their official
positions to assist Goldman Sachs in obtaining the bond deals and other business. By this conduct
Leissner willfully violated Exchange Act Section 30A.

Leissner Aided and Abetted and Caused Violations of Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2)(A)

 

54. The books and records provision of the FCPA, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange
Act, requires every issuer with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the
Exchange Act to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer. 15 U.S.C.
§ 78m(b)(2)(A).

55. As described above, Leissner knowingly actively concealed highly relevant
information from financial, legal and compliance executives, including by making misstatements
to these executives regarding Low’s role as an intermediary in the bond deals. This caused
Goldman Sachs to improperly record transactions in the Magnolia Bond Documents, the Maximus
Bond Documents, and the Catalyze Bond Documents (collectively, the “1MDB Bond
Documents’) so as to misstate the actual intended uses of bond proceeds. By this conduct Leissner
willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A).

Leissner Violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1

 

56. Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) provides that no person shall “knowingly
circumvent ... a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsify any book, record, or
account.” 15 U.S.C. § 13(b)(5). Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 further provides that “no person shall,
directly or indirectly, falsify or cause to be falsified, any book, record, or account.” 17 CFR
§ 240.13b2-1.

57. As described above, Leissner knowingly circumvented those internal accounting
controls that Goldman Sachs had in place and caused the company’s books, records and accounts
to be falsified through the misrepresentations that he made to Goldman Sachs’s executives and
committees. Leissner’s conduct caused Goldman Sachs to improperly record in the IMDB Bond
Documents payments that it made in connection with the bond deals. The bond proceeds were in
fact used in part to make bribes and other illicit payments. By this conduct, Leissner willfully
violated Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.

11
Criminal and Other Regulatory Dis positions

58. Respondent has pleaded guilty to criminal conduct relating to the findings in the
Order. Specifically, in United States v. Leissner, Cr. No. 18-CR-439 (MKB) (E.D.N.Y. 2018)
Respondent pleaded guilty to one count of Conspiracy to Violate the FCPA and one count of
Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering. As part of his guilty plea, Leissner agreed to forfeit
$43,700,000.

59. Respondent has also entered into a parallel civil settlement with the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) concerning some of the
findings in the Order. Specifically, in In the Matter of Tim Leissner, Docket No. 19-008-E-I (Mar.
11, 2019), Leissner agreed to pay a civil money penalty of $1,425,000.

Non-Imposition ofa Civil Penalty

 

60. Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty
based upon (a) Respondent’s guilty plea as part of his resolution with the United States Department
of Justice, and (b) the imposition of a civil money penalty as part of the settlement with the Federal
Reserve Board.

IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.

Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange Act, Section 203(f)
of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby ORDERED
that:

A. Respondent cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule
13b2-1 thereunder.

B. Respondent be, and hereby is:

barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal
securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized
Statistical rating organization;

prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an
advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a
registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser,
depositor, or principal underwriter; and

12
barred from participatmg in any olfermg of a penny stock, includmg: acting asa
promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with
a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny
stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny
stock.

Cc, Any reappheation for association by the Respondent will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations govermng the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned
upon a number of factors, mcludmg, but not hmited to, compliance with the Commussion’s
order and payrnent of any or all of the followme: (a) any disgorgement or civil penalties
ordered by a Court against the Respondent m any action brought by the Commission; (b) any
disgorgement amounts ordered agamst the Respondent for which the Commission waived
payment; (c) any arbitration award related to the conduct that servedas the basis for the
Commussion order; (d) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer,
whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commussion order; and (e)
any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.

D. Respondent shall pay to the Commission disgorgement of $43,700,000. The
amount of this obligation shall be reduced and deemed satisfied by the amount of Respondent’s
ernmnal forfeiture in United States v. Leissner, Cr. No. 18-CR-439 (MKB) (E.D.N.Y. 2018) up
to and mciuding the entire amount of this obligation.

By the Commission.

Vanessa A. Countryman
Secretary

13
