PUBLIC VERSION

 

In the Matter of Claims for Award by:

Redacted

WB-APP Redacted : and
CFTC Whistleblower Award
Redacted Determination No. 19-WB-04

WB-APP Redacted

In Connection with
Notice of Covered Action No. ®*¢#eted

New Seman! Same Sauna Sent” Sie! St Samant esa angie etl Sct

 

ORDER DETERMINING WHISTLEBLOWER AWARD CLAIMS

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) received whistleblower

award applications from Claimant 1 and Claimant 2 in response to Notice of Covered Action
Redacted Redacted

. The underlying enforcement action is Redacted

. The Claims Review Staff has evaluated the award
applications in accordance with the Commission’s Whistleblower Rules (“Rules”), 17 C.F.R. pt.
165 (2018), promulgated pursuant to Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA” or
“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 26 (2012). On Redacted , the Claims Review Staff issued a
Preliminary Determination recommending that Claimant 1 receive a whistleblower award in the
amount of *"% of monetary sanctions collected in Redacted because Claimant 1
voluntarily provided original information to the Commission that led to the successful
enforcement of a covered action. The Preliminary Determination also recommended denying the
other award claim because Claimant 2 did not contribute to Redacted

I. LEGAL ANALYSIS

Section 23(b)(1) of the CEA requires the Commission to pay an award to an individual
who voluntarily provides the Commission with original information that leads to the successful
enforcement of a covered or related action. 7 U.S.C. § 26(b)(1) (2012). The Claims Review
Staff has determined that Claimant 1 voluntarily provided the Commission with original
information that led to the successful enforcement of a covered action. Claimant 1, Redacted

Redacted , is a whistleblower because Claimant 1
submitted information on a Form TCR regarding potential violations of the CEA —_ Redacted
Redacted . Claimant 1 provided the information voluntarily, as
Claimant 1 was not under any legal obligation to report to the Commission. In addition,
Claimant 1’s information was original. The information was previously unknown to the
Commission and derived from Claimant 1’s Redacted . Lastly,
Claimant 1’s information led the Commission to open an investigation and Redacted
PUBLIC VERSION

The Claim Review Staff recommended the award amount to be ***% of the amount of
monetary sanctions collected in the covered action, which would result in a payment ®*4<'e4

. We agree with this determination.’ In arriving at this award amount, the Claims
Review Staff applied the factors set forth in Rule 165.9, 17 C.F.R. § 165.9, in relation to the facts
and circumstances of Claimant 1’s award application. The determination of the appropriate
percentage of a whistleblower award involves a highly individualized review of the facts and
circumstances. Depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case, some factors may not
be applicable or may deserve greater weight than others. The analytical framework in the Rules
provides general principles without mandating a particular result. The criteria for determining
the amount of an award in Rule 165.9, 17 C.F.R. § 165.9, are not listed in any order of
importance and are not assigned relative importance. The Rules do not specify how much any
factor in Rule 165.9(b) or (c) should increase or decrease the award percentage. Not satisfying
any one of the positive factors does not mean that the award percentage must be less than 30%,
and the converse is true. Not having any one of the negative factors does not mean the award
percentage must be greater than 10%. These principles serve to prevent a vital whistleblower
from being penalized for not satisfying the positive factors. For example, a whistleblower who
provides the Commission with significant information and substantial assistance such as
testifying at trial and producing smoking gun documents could receive 30% even if the
whistleblower did not participate in any internal compliance systems. In contrast, in order to
prevent a windfall, a whistleblower who provides some useful but partial information and limited
assistance to the Commission may receive 10% even if none of the negative factors were present.

As applied, Claimant 1’s information was significant. The Commission made numerous
findings Redacted that were directly based on information Claimant | provided.
Further, Claimant 1’s information helped conserve the Commission’s resources because
Claimant 1 also reported the same information to Redacted
which conducted its own investigation and shared its findings with the Commission. The
findings significantly assisted the Commission Redacted . After
causing the Division to open an investigation into ®***¢ Claimant 1 provided extensive and
ongoing assistance to Division staff by identifying key relationships and explaining complex
financial arrangements. The multiple interviews Claimant 1 gave and the numerous documents
Claimant | provided were highly informative and the basis for the investigation. Lastly, no
decreasing factors were found with respect to Claimant 1.

°
Redacted

The Commission will not pay out an award on related actions. Redacted

 

1 Redacted

Redacted
PUBLIC VERSION

The Claims Review Staff also determined to recommend that the Commission deny
Claimant 2’s award claim because Claimant 2’s information did not add to or impact the course
of the Division’s investigation into ®***4 Claimant 2 did not file a Form TCR until a year after
the Division’s investigation had begun. By that time, Division staff had already made progress
in its investigation, including reviewing several document productions, engaging in substantive
discussions with eed and initiating discussions with R°*¢ regarding this matter. In
light of this, Division staff investigating this matter did not contact or interview Claimant 2.
Accordingly, Claimant 2’s information did not lead to Redacted

Il. RESPONSE TO PRELIMINARY DETERMINATION

Neither Claimant 1 nor Claimant 2 responded to the Preliminary Determination.
Accordingly, pursuant to Rule 165.7(h), 17 C.F.R. § 165.7(h), the Preliminary Determination
became the Proposed Final Determination of the Claims Review Staff with respect to Claimant
1. Pursuant to Rule 165.7(h), 17 C.F.R. § 165.7(h), the Preliminary Determination became the
Final Order of the Commission with respect to Claimant 2. Claimant 2’s failure to submit a
timely response contesting the Preliminary Determination constituted a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies. Accordingly, Claimant 2 is prohibited from pursuing an appeal under
Rule 165.13, 17 C.F.R. § 165.13.

Hl. CONCLUSION

It is hereby ORDERED that Claimant 1 shall receive “*’% of monetary sanctions
collected in Redacted
By the Commission.

Dated: duly |

, 2019

PUBLIC VERSION

 

Secretary of the Commission

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
1155 21" Street, N.W.

Washington, DC 20581
