UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

RECEIVED CFTC

 

   

In the Matter of: ONS

Office of Proceedings
Proceedings Clerk

Heraeus Metals New York LLC, 8:57 am, Sep 16, 2019

CFTC Docket No. 19-2

 

Respondent.

Samet ae” nee” Nt! Sa” Set” ee”

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I. INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from in or about May 2017 through January 2018 (“Relevant Period”), Heraeus Metals New
York LLC (“Respondent” or ““Heraeus”) violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Commodity
Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. §6c(a)(5)(C) (2012). Therefore, the Commission deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted to determine whether Heraeus engaged in the violations set forth herein and to
determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Heraeus has submitted
an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept. Without
admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Heraeus consents to the entry of
this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity Exchange
Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) and acknowledges service of
this Order.

 

' Respondent consents to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this proceeding and
in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, and agrees
that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Respondent
does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any
other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, other than: a
proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondent does not
consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any
other proceeding.
IL. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

During the Relevant Period, Heraeus, by and through one of its former traders, John
Lawrence (“Lawrence”), engaged in numerous instances of the disruptive trading practice known
as “spoofing” (i.e., bidding or offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution)
involving silver futures contracts and gold futures contracts traded on the Commodity Exchange
(“COMEX”), a futures exchange and designated contract market which is owned and operated
by CME Group Inc. (“CME”). This conduct violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§ 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012).

B. RESPONDENT

Heraeus Metals New York LLC is a U.S. affiliate of a global precious metals refiner
and fabricator. From September 2014 through February 2018, Heraeus employed Lawrence as a
trader. Heraeus has never been registered with the Commission.

Cc. FACTS
1. Spoofing

Heraeus purchases and sells physical precious metals for a variety of manufacturing and
other industrial applications. Heraeus’s customers include its corporate affiliates and third
parties that both source physical precious metals from Heraeus and sell excess physical precious
metals inventory to Heraeus. As part of this business, Heraeus trades precious metals futures to
manage the price risk associated with its physical precious metals transactions. Because Heraeus
traded precious metals futures for risk management purposes only, Heraeus restricted its traders’
ability to trade precious metals futures, including during the Relevant Period, by, among other
things, limiting the maximum order size its traders could place to twenty lots.

From September 2014 through February 2018, Heraeus employed Lawrence as a trader.
Lawrence’s responsibilities at Heraeus included both buying and selling physical precious
metals, including silver and gold, as well as trading precious metals futures contracts, including
the COMEX silver futures contract and the COMEX gold futures contract.

Beginning in May 2017, Lawrence began placing bids and offers in Heraeus’s trading
account for COMEX silver and COMEX gold futures contracts with the intent to cancel those
bids and offers before their execution. Lawrence’s trading pattern involved placing on one side
of market a relatively small order, typically for one lot, that he wanted to get filled (“Genuine
Order”). Lawrence then placed on the opposite side of the market a larger order, typically for
twenty lots, the maximum size Heraeus allowed him to place, that he intended to cancel before
execution (“Spoof Order”). Lawrence placed the Spoof Order knowing that this order would
often induce other market participants to fill his Genuine Order. Lawrence then cancelled his
Spoof Order within seconds of placing it, often immediately after he received a fill on his
Genuine Order.

Between May 2017 and October 2017, Lawrence engaged in spoofing using this trading
pattern on a small number of isolated occasions. Beginning in October 2017, Lawrence
intensified his spoofing activity. By January 2018, Lawrence had placed hundreds of Spoof
Orders for COMEX silver and COMEX gold futures contracts.

Heraeus suspended Lawrence from trading on or about February 20, 2018, immediately
after it discovered Lawrence’s spoofing activity. Heraeus terminated Lawrence’s employment
shortly thereafter.

2. Remediation

Heraeus represents that by April 2018, in addition to its existing risk management and
monitoring tools, it had instituted a number of measures to prevent its traders from engaging in
spoofing, including daily monitoring and review of all order cancellations and modifications. In
addition, Heraeus represents that in March 2018, Heraeus expanded the annual compliance
training it gives to all traders to include separate and specific training on the prohibitions against
spoofing and other disruptive trading practices under the Act and relevant exchange rules.

Il. LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Spoofing in COMEX Silver and COMEX Gold Futures Contracts, in Violation of
Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act

Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012), makes it unlawful for
“la|]ny person to engage in any trading, practice, or conduct on or subject to the rules of a
registered entity that. . . is, is of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as,
‘spoofing’ (bidding or offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution).” See,
e.g., United States v. Coscia, 866 F.3d 782, 792-93 (7th Cir. 2017) (holding that because the Act
clearly defines spoofing, it provides adequate notice of prohibited conduct), cert. denied, 138 S.
Ct. 1989 (2018).

As described above, during the Relevant Period, Heraeus, by and through the acts of
Lawrence, placed bids and offers for futures contracts listed on COMEX, a registered entity,
with the intent to cancel those bids and offers before they were executed. By engaging in this
conduct, Heraeus violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act. See CFTC v. Oystacher, 203 F. Supp.
3d 934, 942 (N.D. Il. 2016) (denying motion for judgment on the pleadings, holding that
allegations of placing “both bids and offers with the intent to cancel those bids or offers before
execution” constitutes “trading behavior [that] falls within the Spoofing Statute’s defined
prohibition”).

B. Heraeus Is Liable for the Acts of Its Agent

Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Commission Regulation
(“Regulation”) 1.2, 17 C.F.R. §1.2 (2019), provide that ‘“‘[t]he act, omission, or failure of any
official, agent, or other person acting for any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or
trust within the scope of his employment or office shall be deemed the act, omission, or failure of
such individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust.” Pursuant to section 2(a)(1)(B) of
the Act and Regulation 1.2, strict liability is imposed on principals for the actions of their agents.
See, e.g., Rosenthal & Co. v. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963 966 (7th Cir. 1986); CFTC v. Byrnes, 58 F.
Supp. 3d 319, 324 (S.D.N.Y. 2014).

Because Lawrence engaged in the spoofing conduct described above within the scope of
his employment with Heraeus, Heraeus is liable for Lawrence’s violation of Section 4c(a)(5)(C)
of the Act.

IV. FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, Heraeus
violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012).

V. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Heraeus has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the findings .
and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges service of this Order;

B. ' Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;

All post-hearing procedures;

Wo

4. Judicial review by any court;

5, Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504 (2012), and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2019), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

7. Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II, §§ 201-253, 110
Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
and

8. Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief, including this Order;

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Heraeus has consented in the Offer; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1. Makes findings by the Commission that Heraeus, by and through the acts of
Lawrence, violated Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012);

2. Orders Heraeus to cease and desist from violating Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act;

3. Orders Heraeus to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of nine hundred
thousand dollars ($900,000), plus post-judgment interest within ten days of the
date of entry of this Order;

4. Orders Heraeus to comply with the conditions and undertakings consented to in the
Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Heraeus shall cease and desist from violating Section 4c(a)(5)(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 6c(a)(5)(C) (2012).

Heraeus shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of nine hundred thousand
dollars ($900,000) (“CMP Obligation”), within ten days of the date of the entry of this
Order. If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten days of the date of entry of
this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligation beginning on
the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate
prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Heraeus shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by electronic funds
transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money
order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment
shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the
address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement
6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.
HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169
(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Heraeus shall contact Marie Thorne
or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall fully
comply with those instructions. Heraeus shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the Respondent and the name and docket
number of this proceeding. Heraeus shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover
letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20581.

Heraeus shall comply with the following conditions and undertakings set forth in the
Offer:

1. Public Statements: Heraeus agrees that neither it nor any of its agents or
employees under its authority or control shall take any action or make any public
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or conclusions in this Order
or creating, or tending to create, the impression that this Order is without a factual
basis; provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall affect Heraeus’s: (i)
testimonial obligations; or (ii) right to take legal positions in other proceedings to
which the Commission is not a party. Heraeus shall comply with this agreement,
and shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or
employees under its authority or control understand and comply with this
agreement.

2. Cooperation, in General: Heraeus shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with the
Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, in this action,
and in any current or future Commission investigation or action related thereto.
Heraeus shall also cooperate in any investigation, civil litigation, or administrative
matter related to, or arising from, the subject matter of this action.

tuo

Partial Satisfaction: Heraeus understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of any partial payment of Heraeus’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
remaining balance.

4. Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Heraeus satisfies in full its CMP
Obligation as set forth in this Order, Heraeus shall provide written notice to the
Commission by certified mail of any change to its telephone number and mailing
address within ten calendar days of the change.
The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christop

 
   
 

           

her J. Kirkpa rick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: September 16, 2019
