UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

In the Matter of:

J Squared Invest LLC and
Jozef Gherman,

 

CFTC Docket No. 21-06

Proceedings Clerk

\ 10:27 am, Apr 19, 2021 )

 

 

Respondents.

a 4 ae ae a a a

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I. INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from in or about June 2017 to at least July 2018 (“Relevant Period”), J Squared Invest LLC (“J
Squared Invest’) and Jozef Gherman (“Gherman’’) (collectively, “Respondents”) violated
Section 6(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2018), and Regulation
180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2019) of the Commission Regulations (“Regulations”)
promulgated thereunder. Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine
whether Respondents engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any
order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondents consent to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity
Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), and acknowledge
service of this Order.!

 

' Respondents consent to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this proceeding and
in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission 1s a party or claimant, and agree
that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein, without further proof.

Respondents do not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole
basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission 1s a party or claimant, other
than: a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondents
do not consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in
any other proceeding.
I. FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
A. SUMMARY

Between June 2017 and July 2018, Respondents solicited and accepted funds from over
forty (40) customers to trade virtual currencies (also called cryptocurrencies or digital assets),
including Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ether and other alternative coins? (“altcoins”), through the use
of materially misleading statements and omissions. Respondents solicited retail customers for
the purpose of, inter alia, purchasing sufficient quantities of virtual currencies to establish and
operate masternodes. Respondents solicited customers through various means, including a
website, social media and written and verbal communications, which: (1) made misleading
representations about the growth and success of J Squared and Gherman’s success as a trader;
and (ii) made misleading statements and omissions regarding the likelihood of profit and risk of
loss, including by claiming that in purchasing the virtual currencies to operate the masternodes,
the customer would make the original principal, set up fee and profit, even if the price of the
underlying virtual currency suffered catastrophic losses.

In total, Respondents solicited over $300,000 from over 40 individuals through the use of
their misleading statements and omissions. Almost all of these customers who entrusted
Respondents with their funds and followed Gherman’s recommendations lost most of their
investments.

In accepting the Offer, the Commission recognizes the substantial cooperation of
Respondents with the Division of Enforcement’s (“Division”) investigation of this matter. The
Commission also acknowledges Respondents’ representations concerning their remediation in
connection with this matter. The Commission’s recognition of Respondents’ substantial
cooperation and remediation is further reflected in the form of a reduced penalty.

B. RESPONDENTS

Jozef Gherman, born in 1994, is a Florida resident. Gherman was an employee and one
of the founders of J Squared and was its principal owner and CEO. Gherman has never been
registered with the Commission in any capacity.

J Squared Invest LLC was a limited liability company organized under the laws of the
State of Florida in October 2017. The company was dissolved in October 2018. Gherman was
listed as the company’s manager in corporate filings, and as its CEO on its website. The
company’s most recent address, according to corporate filings, was listed in St. Petersburg,
Florida. J Squared has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

 

? Bitcoin Cash is a “forked” virtual currency derived from Bitcoin. “Forking” involves a splitting of the blockchain
on which the virtual currency runs in a different direction. The term “altcoins” refers to virtual currencies other than
Bitcoin. Ether is the largest altcoin by market capitalization as of September 2020.
C. FACTS

From at least in or around June 2017 through at least July 2018 (the “Relevant Period”),
Respondents were engaged in the business of purchasing and selling Ether, Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash
along with other altcoins. Bitcoin is a form of virtual currency, which is a decentralized, peer-to-
peer form of electronic currency.

As part of their operations, Respondents solicited and received both virtual currencies
and fiat currency, including U.S. Dollars from customers in various states and countries for the
purpose of entering into or facilitating the customers’ purchase or sale of various virtual
currencies for customers, including Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ether and other altcoins. Initially,
Respondents solicited customers to purchase virtual currencies in order to speculate on the price
of the underlying virtual currency. In or around January 2018, Respondents changed their
business model to identify and purchase particular altcoins in sufficient quantity that would
allow them to operate masternodes® and earn passive income. In total, Gherman and J Squared
solicited over $300,000 from over forty individuals (the “J Squared Customers” or “Customers’”).

Gherman and J Squared entered into written agreements with the Customers that referred
to J Squared as the “Advisor” to the Customers. The form of the investor agreement changed
over time, initially identifying Gherman as a fiduciary of the Customers, and later indicating that
J Squared was responsible for proposing a “methodology to guide current and new investments”
for the Customers. The Customers typically had little, if any, background in virtual currencies
and relied on Gherman to select the virtual currencies for their investments. Many Customers
were dependent on Gherman to make their investment decisions for them and trusted him as their
investment “advisor” to make those decisions for them.

Gherman, in his communications with J Squared Customers, recklessly made
misleading statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts which induced
individuals to invest with J Squared, invest additional funds with J Squared, or continue to hold
their investments with J Squared. Respondents made misleading statements regarding J
Squared’s growth and success as a company, its expanding clientele, and its ability to be
selective in acquiring customers. For instance, Respondents falsely stated that J Squared was
“rapidly approaching multimillion dollar levels [under management].” In fact, J Squared’s
assets under management did not approach the million-dollar mark. Financial records and
emails indicate that, at the time of this claim, J Squared’s assets under management were
approximately $100,000. Similarly, Respondents made false statements that the company was
focusing on “quality over quantity” and began imposing “minimum” investment requirements
that exceeded most current Customers’ investment levels. In reality, J Squared continued to
accept new Customers investing at levels far below the $10,000 “minimum” investment level.
Most Customers invested between $2,000 and $7,000 with J Squared.

 

3 A masternode is essentially computer wallet (also known as a crypto full node) that supports the network of a
virtual currency by hosting an entire copy of the coin’s ledger in real time. In return for its hosting services, the
owner of masternode will receive virtual currencies as a reward. See https://cryptodigestnews.com/blockchain-
basics-what-is-masternode-dbed481a846e?2¢1=6455a2eaeb19. To establish a masternode, a party needs to purchase
a substantial quantity of the virtual currency in question to serve as the operator’s “stake” in the currency.
https://decryptionary.com/dictionary/masternode/.
Furthermore, Respondents recklessly made materially false and misleading statements
and omissions regarding the likelihood of profit and the risk of loss. For instance, when
Gherman initially proposed liquidating the virtual currencies to accumulate altcoins to run
masternodes, he explained it by saying “[t]he reason is simple. You are going to receive a check
at the end every month,” and that customers have the opportunity “to generate substantial income
at a fraction of the cost ...[and] can get a $5,000 master node that can generate $40,000
annually.” However, when touting the likelihood of profit for his investment recommendation,
Gherman failed to disclose that the returns or rewards generated by masternodes tended to be
“random” and could not be relied upon to generate enough rewards to warrant monthly checks or
thousands of dollars annually. Gherman subsequently acknowledged to customers that
masternode returns tended to be random only after Customers made their initial investment and
then complained about the failure to produce the touted returns. Gherman also misrepresented
the risk of loss in purchasing certain virtual currencies, claiming, for example, that “[1]n every
scenario, especially the catastrophic scenario, the client [still] makes original principal, set up fee
and profit.” While Gherman provided boilerplate disclosures in emails that his claims were not
“guarantees,” he was reckless in misrepresenting to Customers the likelihood of profit and the
risk of loss associated with their investments.

In almost every instance, the masternodes Gherman recommended failed to deliver the
touted returns, and the virtual currencies purchased to run the masternodes suffered substantial
declines in value. In total, Respondents solicited over $300,000 from over forty (40) J Squared
Customers during the Relevant Period. Respondents incurred near total net losses on the
investments. Collectively, the Customers suffered unreimbursed losses totaling approximately
$247,110.

Hl. LEGAL DISCUSSION

A. Violation of Section 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) and Regulation 180.1(a), 17
C.F.R. § 180.1(a)

Section 6(c)(1) of the Act makes it unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to:

use or employ, or attempt to use or employ, in connection with any swap, or a
contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery
on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, any manipulative or deceptive
device or contrivance, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the
Commission shall promulgate ...

Promulgated under Section 6(c)(1) of the Act, Regulation 180.1(a) provides:
It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, in connection with any swap, or
a contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or

subject to the rules of any registered entity, to intentionally or recklessly:

(1) Use or employ, or attempt to use or employ, any manipulative device, scheme, or
artifice to defraud;
(2) Make, or attempt to make, any untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or
to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made not
untrue or misleading;

(3) Engage, or attempt to engage, in any act, practice, or course of business, which
operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit on any person.

Virtual currencies such as Bitcoin are encompassed in the definition of “commodity”
under Section 1a(9) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(9) (2018). See CFTC v. McDonnell, 287 F. Supp.
3d 213, 228 (E.D.N.Y.) (“[V]irtual currencies can be regulated by CFTC as a commodity.”),
aff'd on reconsideration, 321 F. Supp. 3d 366 (E.D.N.Y. 2018); In re BFXNA Inc., CFTC No.
16-19, 2016 WL 3137612, at *5 (June 2, 2016) (consent order) (“[V]irtual currencies are
encompassed in the [Act’s] definition and properly defined as commodities.”); /n re Coinflip,
Inc., CFTC No. 15-29, 2015 WL 5535736, at *2 (Sept. 17, 2015) (consent order) (“Bitcoin and
other virtual currencies are encompassed in the definition [of Section 1a(9) of the Act] and
properly defined as commodities.”); see also CFTC v. My Big Coin Pay, Inc., No. CV 18-
10077-RWZ, 2018 WL 4621727, at *5 (D. Mass. Sept. 26, 2018). Accordingly, Bitcoin,
Litecoin and other virtual currencies are subject to applicable provisions of the Act and
Commission Regulations, including Section 6(c)(1) of the Act and Regulation 180.1(a). See,
e.g., Inre TeraExchange LLC, CFTC No. 15-33, 2015 WL 5658082, at *3 n.3 (Sept. 24, 2015)
(consent order) (“Further, bitcoin is a commodity under Section la of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la
(2012), and is therefore subject as a commodity to applicable provisions of the Act and
Regulations.”).

The Commission has authority under Section 6(c)(1) of the Act and Regulation 180.1 to
take action against persons who engage in fraud and fraudulent schemes in connection with
contracts of sale of commodities in interstate commerce. McDonnell, 321 F. Supp. 3d at 367
(affirming on reconsideration that “Title 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) gives the CFTC standing to exercise
its enforcement power over the fraudulent schemes alleged in the complaint.”); My Big Coin
Pay, 2018 WL 4621727 at *5 (rejecting defense that Section 6(c)(1) of the Act and Regulation
180.1 were meant only to combat fraudulent market manipulation and not the alleged
solicitation fraud). A person violates Section 6(c)(1) of the Act and Regulation 180.1 if he or
she: (1) engages in prohibited conduct (1.e., employs a fraudulent scheme, makes material
misrepresentations or omissions, or engages in fraudulent business practices); (2) in connection
with the sale of a commodity in interstate commerce; (3) with scienter. CFTC v. Hunter Wise
Commodities, LLC, 21 F. Supp. 3d 1317, 1347 (S.D. Fla. 2014). Each of these elements is
present in this case.

During the course of J Squared’s operations, Gherman solicited and received virtual
currency and fiat currency, including U.S. Dollars from Customers in various states and
countries for the purpose of entering into or facilitating the Customers’ purchase or sale of
cryptocurrency. Gherman engaged in prohibited conduct when he made misleading statements
to Customers regarding J Squared’s growth and success as a company, its expanding clientele,
including misleading statements that J Squared was “rapidly approaching multimillion dollar
levels [under management].”

Similarly, Gherman made misrepresentations to Customers regarding the likelihood of
profit of his investment recommendations and the risk of loss. For example, Gherman
recklessly made false statements asserting that Customers who purchased altcoins for the
creation of masternodes were “going to receive a check at the end every month,” and that they
could “get a $5,000 master node that can generate $40,000 annually.” Gherman failed to
disclose to Customers that he understood the touted returns or rewards generated by
masternodes tended to be “random.”

A statement of fact is material if “there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable
investor would consider it important in making an investment decision.” Saxe v. E.F. Hutton &
Co., 789 F.2d 105, 111 (2d Cir. 1986). Any fact that enables investors to assess the risk
inherent in their investment and the likelihood of profit is material. See In re Commodities Int’l
Corp., CFTC No. 83-43, 1997 WL 11543, at *8-9 (Jan. 14, 1997). Misrepresentations
concerning profit and risk go to the heart of a customer’s investment decision and are therefore
material as a matter of law. CFTC v. Int’l Fin. Servs. (N.Y.), Inc., 323 F. Supp. 2d 482, 501
(S.D.N.Y. 2004) (citations omitted). Here, Respondents’ misrepresentations about the growth,
success, and expanding clientele of J Squared, as well as Respondents’ misrepresentations
regarding likelihood of profit and risk of loss were material.

By and through the aforementioned conduct, Respondents violated Section 6(c)(1) of
the Act and Regulation 180.1 when they either knowingly or recklessly made false and
misleading statements and omissions in connection with contracts of sale of virtual currencies
in interstate commerce such as Ether, Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash and other altcoins.

B. Gherman Is Liable as a Control Person for J Squared’s Conduct.

Gherman is liable for J Squared’s conduct as a controlling person. Section 13(b) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b) (2018), states that a controlling person of an entity is liable for the
violations of that entity if the controlling person knowingly induced the violations, directly or
indirectly, or did not act in good faith. “A fundamental purpose of Section 13[(b)] is to allow the
Commission to reach behind the corporate entity to the controlling individuals of the corporation
and to impose liability for violations of the Act directly on such individuals as well as the
corporation itself.” CFTC v. RJ. Fitzgerald & Co., Inc., 310 F.3d 1321, 1334 (11th Cir. 2002)
(quoting JCC, Inc. v. CFTC, 63 F.3d 1557, 1567 (11th Cir. 1995)). A controlling person
“knowingly induced” the conduct if he “had actual or constructive knowledge of the core
activities that make up the violation at issue and allowed them to continue.” Jd.

To establish the control element, Plaintiff must prove by a preponderance of the evidence
that the alleged control person had “general control over the operation of the entity principally
liable.” Monieson v. CFTC, 996 F.2d 852, 859 (7th Cir. 1993) (quoting Donohoe v. Consol.
Operating & Prod. Corp., 982 F.2d 1130, 1138 (7th Cir. 1992)). Control person liability will
attach if the defendant “possessed the power or ability to control the specific transaction or
activity upon which the primary violation was predicated.” Jd. Making management and hiring
decisions and overseeing day-to-day operations support a finding that the alleged
controlling person exercised “general control” over the enterprise. See id. at 860 (citing G.A.
Thompson & Co., Inc. v. Partridge, 636 F.2d 945, 958 (Sth Cir. 1981)). It is the existence of the
“power” or ability to control the illegal transaction or activity “that matters, not whether he
exercised it by actually participating in or benefitting from the illegal acts.” See id.
Gherman was one of founders and chief operating officer of J Squared. Gherman
had actual knowledge of the violations at issue here. Gherman exercised general control over J
Squared by making management and personnel decisions for the company, was the main point of
contact for soliciting and interacting with J Squared Customers, and conducted the trading
activities for the company and its Customers. Therefore, pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Act,
Gherman as a controlling person is liable for J Squared’s violations of Section 6(c)(1) and
Regulation 180.1.

C. J Squared Is Liable for Gherman’s Conduct

J Squared is liable for Gherman’s conduct. Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§ 2(a)(1)(B) (2018), and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2019), provide that “[t]he act,
omission, or failure of any official, agent, or other person acting for any individual, association,
partnership, corporation, or trust within the scope of his employment or office shall be deemed
the act, omission, or failure of such individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust.”
Pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act and Commission Regulation 1.2, strict liability is
imposed on principals for the actions of their agents. See, e.g., Rosenthal & Co. v. CFTC, 802
F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986); Dohmen-Ramirez v. CFTC, 837 F.2d 847, 857-58 (9th Cir. 1988);
CFTC v. Byrnes, 58 F. Supp. 3d 319, 324 (S.D.N.Y. 2014).

Gherman, an employee, official and agent of J Squared, engaged in the conduct described
herein within the course and scope of his employment or office with J Squared. Therefore,
pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act and Regulation 1.2, J Squared is liable for the acts,
omissions, and failures of Gherman in violation of the provisions of the Act and Regulations
cited above.

IV. FINDINGS OF VIOLATION

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period,
Respondents violated Section 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2018), and Regulation
180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2019).

V. OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondents have submitted the Offer in which they, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledge service of this Order;

B. Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waive:
1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;
All post-hearing procedures;
Judicial review by any court;

Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

Any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
U.S.C. § 504 (2018), and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2018), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
pt. 148 (2019), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

Any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II, §§ 201-253, 110
Stat. 847, 857-74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
and

Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief, including this Order;

Stipulate that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondents have consented in the Offer; and

Consent, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

I.

Makes findings by the Commission that Respondents violated Section 6(c)(1) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 9(1) (2018), and Regulation 180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a)
(2019);

Orders Respondents to cease and desist from violating Section 6(c)(1) of the Act
and Regulation 180. 1(a);

Orders Respondents to pay restitution in the amount of two hundred-forty seven
thousand one hundred and ten dollars ($247,110), plus post-judgment interest
within thirty days of the date of entry of this Order, with the amount to be paid by
Gherman to be capped at one hundred and twenty-three thousand five hundred and
fifty-five dollars ($123,555), plus any post-judgment interest, and the amount to be
paid by J Squared to be capped at one hundred and twenty-three thousand five
hundred and fifty-five dollars ($123,555), plus any post-judgment interest;

Orders Respondents to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000), plus post-judgment interest within thirty
days of the date of entry of this Order, with the amount to be paid by Gherman to
be capped at seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000), plus any post-judgment
interest, and the amount to be paid by J Squared to be capped at seventy-five
thousand dollars ($75,000), plus any post-judgment interest;
5. Appoints the National Futures Association (“NFA”) as Monitor in this matter;

6. Orders that Respondents be prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in
trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in
Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2018)), for a period of ten (10) years
after the date of entry of this Order, and all registered entities shall refuse them
trading privileges during that period; and

7. Orders Respondents and their successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI. ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

I.

Respondents shall cease and desist from violating Section 6(c)(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.
§9(1) (2018), and Regulation 180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2019).

Respondents shall pay restitution in the amount of two hundred-forty seven thousand one
hundred and ten dollars ($247,110), plus post-judgment interest within thirty days of the
date of entry of this Order, with the amount to be paid by Gherman to be capped at one
hundred and twenty-three thousand five hundred and fifty-five dollars ($123,555), plus
any post-judgment interest, and the amount to be paid by J Squared to be capped at one
hundred and twenty-three thousand five hundred and fifty-five dollars ($123,555), plus
any post-judgment interest (“Restitution Obligations”). If the Restitution Obligations are
not paid in full within thirty days of the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment
interest shall accrue on the Restitution Obligations beginning on the date of entry of this
Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of
entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2018).

To effect payment by Respondents and the distribution of restitution to Respondents’
customers, the Commission appoints NFA as “Monitor.” The Monitor shall receive
payments of the Restitution Obligations and any post-judgment interest from
Respondents and make distributions as set forth below. Because the Monitor is not being
specially compensated for these services, and these services are outside the normal duties
of the Monitor, it shall not be liable for any action or inaction arising from its
appointment as Monitor other than actions involving fraud.

Respondents shall make their respective payments of the Restitution Obligations and any
post-judgment interest under this Order in the name of the “J Squared/Jozef Gherman
Settlement Fund” and shall send such payments by electronic funds transfer, or U.S.
postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order to the
Office of Administration, National Futures Association, 300 South Riverside Plaza, Suite
1800, Chicago, Illinois 60606, under a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent
and the name and docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall
simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief
Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre,
1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

The Monitor shall oversee Respondents’ Restitution Obligations and shall have the
discretion to determine the manner of distribution of funds in an equitable fashion to the
Respondents’ customers or may defer distribution until such time as the Monitor may
deem appropriate. In the event that the amount of payments of the Restitution Obligations
to the Monitor are of a de minimis nature such that the Monitor determines that the
administrative cost of making a restitution distribution is impractical, the Monitor may, in
its discretion, treat such restitution payments as civil monetary penalty payments, which
the Monitor shall forward to the Commission, as discussed below. To the extent any
funds accrue to the U.S. Treasury for satisfaction of Respondents’ Restitution
Obligations, such funds shall be transferred to the Monitor for disbursement in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Order.

Respondents shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000), plus post-judgment interest within thirty days of the date of
entry of this Order; with the amount to be paid by Gherman to be capped at seventy-five
thousand dollars ($75,000), plus any post-judgment interest, and the amount to be paid by
J Squared to be capped at seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000), plus any post-
judgment interest (“CMP Obligations”). If the CMP Obligations are not paid in full
within thirty days of the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall
accrue on the CMP Obligations beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be
determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2018).

J Squared and Gherman shall pay their respective CMP Obligations and any post-
judgment interest by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check,
bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be made other than by
electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

MMAC/ESC/AMK326

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

HQ Room 181

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

(405) 954-6569 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
9-AMC-AR-CFTC@faa.gov

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondents shall contact Marie
Thorne or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondents shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligations with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit

10
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondents are prohibited from, directly or indirectly, engaging in trading on or subject
to the rules of any registered entity (as that term is defined in Section 1a(40) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. § 1a(40) (2018)), for a period of ten (10) years after the date of entry of this
Order, and all registered entities shall refuse them trading privileges during that period;

and

Respondents and their successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

I.

Public Statements: Respondents agree that neither they nor any of their
successors and assigns, agents or employees under their authority or control shall
take any action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any
findings or conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the
impression that this Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that
nothing in this provision shall affect Respondents’: (1) testimonial obligations; or
(11) right to take legal positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is
not a party. Respondents and their successors and assigns shall comply with this
agreement, and shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of their agents
and/or employees under their authority or control understand and comply with
this agreement.

Respondents agree that, for a period of ten (10) years, they shall not, directly or
indirectly:

a. enter into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as that term is
defined in Regulation 1.3, 17 C.F.R. § 1.3 (2019), or virtual currencies, for
Respondents’ own personal accounts or for any accounts in which
Respondents have a direct or indirect interest;

b. have any commodity interests traded, or virtual currency transactions
conducted, on Respondents’ behalf;

c. control or direct the trading for or on behalf of any other person or entity,
whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any account involving
commodity interests or virtual currencies;

d. solicit, receive, or accept any funds from any person for the purpose of
purchasing or selling any commodity interests or virtual currencies;

e. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, and engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except as
provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2019); and/or

11
f. act as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17 C.F.R.
§ 3.1(a) (2019)), agent or any other officer or employee of any person (as that
term is defined in Section 1a(38) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(38) (2018)),
registered, required to be registered, or exempted from registration with the
Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9).

Cooperation with Monitor: Respondents shall cooperate with the Monitor as
appropriate to provide such information as the Monitor deems necessary and
appropriate to identify Respondents’ customers, whom the Monitor, in its sole
discretion, may determine to include in any plan for distribution of any restitution
payments. Respondents shall execute any documents necessary to release funds
that they have in any repository, bank, investment or other financial institution,
wherever located, 1n order to make partial or total payment toward the Restitution
Obligations.

Cooperation, in General: Respondents shall cooperate fully and expeditiously
with the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement in
this action.

Partial Satisfaction: Respondents understand and agree that any acceptance by
the Commission or the Monitor of any partial payment of Respondents’
Restitution Obligations or CMP Obligations shall not be deemed a waiver of their
obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a waiver of the
Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondents satisfy in full their
Restitution Obligations and CMP Obligations as set forth in this Order,
Respondents shall provide written notice to the Commission by certified mail of
any change to their telephone number and mailing address within ten calendar
days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

(Te

fe |.

 

 

   

   
 

s ACTCOG

  

 

Christopher J. Kirkpatrick

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: April 19, 2021

12
