2020-BCFP-0028 Document’ Filed 12/30/2020 Page 1 of 26

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0028

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Omni Financial of Nevada, Inc., also
doing business as Omni Financial
and Omni Military Loans

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed the
loan-origination activities of Omni Financial of Nevada, Inc., d/b/a Omni Financial
and Omni Military Loans (Omni or Respondent, as defined below) and has
identified the following law violations: conditioning loans to servicemembers on
repayment by allotment, in violation of the Military Lending Act (MLA), 10
U.S.C. § 987(e)(6), and conditioning loans on repayment by preauthorized
electronic fund transfers, in violation of the Electronic Fund Transfers Act (EFTA),
15 U.S.C. § 1693k(1), and the Consumer Financial Protection Act (CFPA), 12
U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1 (A). Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §$§ 5563,

5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).
Jurisdiction
The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under the CFPA, 12 U.S.C.
§§ 5563 and 5565; EFTA, 15 U.S.C. § 16930, the MLA, 10 U.S.C.
§ 987(f)(6), and the Truth In Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1607(a)(6).
I.
Stipulation
Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated December 21, 2020 (Stipulation), which is
incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this
Stipulation, Omni has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by
the Bureau under $8 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565,
without admitting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of
law, except that Omni admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s
jurisdiction over Omni and the subject matter of this action.
HI.
Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
a. “Affected Consumers” includes consumers who obtained loans from

Omni during the Relevant Period, who qualified as Covered Members at
NPN PEEP ON
SOOO REE AHO.
PT RS AL AS

athe A A

2 PAN EPI al
Rita TePROAlaaery D>
POR A Pa a oa

Pe
sae

wo}
oD
ad
very,
re
oy

the time that they took out a loan from Omni, and whose loan repayment
method at the point of origination was allotment.

b. “Board” means Omni’s duly-elected and acting Board of Directors.

c. “Clearly and Prominently” means:

i. in textual communications, the disclosure must be of a type size
and location sufficiently noticeable for an ordinary consumer to
read and comprehend it, in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears, and disclosed in a manner that would be easily
recognizable and understandable in language and syntax to an
ordinary consumer;

li. in communications disseminated orally or through audible means,
the disclosure must be delivered in a volume and cadence
sufficient for an ordinary consumer to hear and comprehend it.

d. “Covered Member” is synonymous in meaning and equal in scope to the
definition of the term, as of the Effective Date, provided in 10 U.S.C.
§ 987(1)(1), and includes a member of the armed forces who is:
i. On active duty under a call or order that does not specify a
period of 30 days or less; or

ii. On active Guard and Reserve Duty.
AAA PPR, Am
PORWR CE BLOG.
in bad Be KP nd Nt :

ted
ms
i
2
of
wt
rd
Cae
co
oy
Bh
ot
Le
i
at
wi

e. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is entered
on the administrative docket.

f. “Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his or
her delegate.

g. “Omni” or “Respondent” means Omni Financial of Nevada, Inc..,
including Omni Financial and Omni Military Loans, and its successors
and assigns.

h. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Omni based on substantially the
same facts as described in § IV of this Consent Order.

i. “Relevant Period” includes from October 3, 2016, to the Effective Date.

IV.

Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Omni is an installment lender that is incorporated in Nevada and has its
principal place of business in Las Vegas. It operates using the trade names
Omni Financial and Omni Military Loans, and it specializes in lending to

consumers affiliated with the military. Its loans typically range from $500 to
$10,000 over a typical term of between 6 and 36 months. Omni originates
tens of thousands of loans each year.
Because Omni originates installment loans for personal or household use, it
is a “covered person” under the CPFA; 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6), (7), &
(15)(A)G); and Omni’s loans are a “consumer financial product or service.”
12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (7), (15)(A)G).

Findings and Conclusions as to Omni’s Allotment Practices
In 2006, Congress amended Title 10 to add a new section commonly
referred to as the Military Lending Act, which provides consumer
protections for servicemembers. John Warner National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, Pub. L. No. 109-364, § 670(a), 120
Stat 2083 (codified at 10 U.S.C. § 987).
Among these protections, the MLA makes it illegal for a creditor, such as
Omni during the Relevant Period, to extend consumer credit to Covered
Members or their dependents if the creditor requires them to repay by
allotment. 10 U.S.C. § 987(e)(6).
About 90% of Omni’s loans are extended to Covered Members, as that term
is defined in 10 U.S.C. § 987(4)(1).
The allotment system is run by the Department of Defense and dates back to

the days before automatic bill-pay and internet banking. The system allows a
10.

II.

12.

13.

AAA Peer ANN
PHO REE BOGOR
fn ka ae LP :

nae!
wat
Wf
%
2
athe
‘P
CaS
ine
ne
es
Cn
Pn
“,
ad

servicemember to designate a portion of each paycheck to certain recipients

other than the servicemember. The allotment system was intended to help
ensure that servicemembers could pay their obligations while they were
deployed or otherwise unavailable to handle personal finances. Over the
years, this has become less necessary as technology has made it easier to
make payments automatically or remotely.

When active-duty servicemembers and active-duty Guard or Reserve
Members who are Covered Members apply for loans from Omni, Omni
employees tell the Covered Members that in order to get the loan they must
repay by allotment.

99% of active-duty servicemembers and active-duty Guard or Reserve
members who are Covered Members and who get loans from Omni repay
their loans by allotment.

Omni has benefited from this practice because the allotment system helps
guarantee payment on unsecured loans, meaning that borrowers who repay
by allotment have lower delinquency and default rates. And Affected
Consumers have been harmed in the amount of interest and fees paid
because they were wrongfully deprived of the option to pay by means
other than allotment.

Therefore, Omni violated the MLA. 10 U.S.C. § 987(e)(6).
14.

15.

16.

17.

AAA PPR, Am
PORWR CE BLOG.
in bad Be KP nd Nt :

ted
ms
i
2
of
wt
rd
Cae
co
oy
Bh
ot
Le
i
at

Findings and Conclusions as to
Omni’s Preauthorized Electronic Fund Transfers Practices

Omni also lends to civilians and non-covered servicemembers, such as

military retirees, some of whom do not have access to the allotment system.

Omni often permits these borrowers to pay by check, cash, credit card, or
ACH, among other means.

Regardless of the repayment method selected by the borrower, Omni
requires every borrower to provide bank account and routing information.
And each consumer must sign a contract that authorizes Omni to initiate an
electronic-fund transfer from the identified bank account on the scheduled
payment date in the event of a payment default under the primary payment
method. Under the contract, Omni is authorized to initiate an electronic-
fund transfer on the first business day after the due date of a payment that
has been missed.

EFTA states that no person may condition an extension of credit on a
consumer’s agreement to repay by a preauthorized electronic-fund transfer.
15 U.S.C. § 1693k(1).

The terms in Omni’s contracts constitute preauthorized electronic-fund
transfers because they authorize in advance an electronic-fund transfer to
occur at substantially regular intervals (i.e., the first business day after a

missed payment and each successive payment thereafter until the borrower

7
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

AARAAR PRR AAs ~ ; x ee IRA mo ~ of
SOOO REE EAA Maciimant 4 Sian TOPRAPS AON Dara B et 3
oe Ae ee OU ALN hath. APiGeSP gL F PPS ob eke as PoC GMa

¥
oF

makes a payment by another means). 15 U.S.C. § 1693a(1).

Therefore, Omni violated EFTA. 15 U.S.C. § 1693k(1).

Section 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA prohibits covered persons from offering
or providing a consumer-financial product or service that is not in
conformity with Federal consumer-financial law. 12 U.S.C. §5536(a)(1)(A).
EFTA is a Federal consumer-financial law. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(12)(C), (14).
Omni’s loans were not offered or provided in conformity with EFTA, as
described above.
Therefore, Omni violated the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

V.

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:
Omni and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have
actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly,
may not violate: 10 U.S.C. § 987(e), including by conditioning a loan to a
borrower who is a Covered Member under the MLA on that Covered
Member’s agreement to repay by allotment; or 15 U.S.C. § 1693k(1) by
conditioning any loan on a borrower’s agreement to repay by preauthorized

electronic fund transfer.

Within 30 days of receiving notice of the Enforcement Director’s
25.

AAA PPR, Am
PHO REE BOGOR
fe A ge LP hd Ne

ted
ms
i
2
of
wt
rd
Cae
co
oy
Bh
ot
Le
i
at
wi

nonobjection to the Compliance Plan, Omni must contact in writing,

which may be electronic, each borrower who has a loan with an

outstanding balance and who, as of the Effective Date, is repaying his or

her loan by allotment, and Clearly and Prominently:

a. inform the borrower of this Consent Order and provide a summary of the
Bureau’s findings and conclusions;

b. inform the borrower that the borrower may choose to repay his or her
loan using a different repayment method;

c. list all repayment methods available to the borrower; and

d. provide a method by which the borrower may elect an alternative
repayment option.

Omni and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have

actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly,

may not make any representation or statement, or take any other action that

interferes with, detracts from, contradicts, or otherwise undermines the

communications required under this Paragraph. Omni shall include no other

materials with the notice unless Omni has obtained written confirmation

from the Enforcement Director that the Bureau does not object to the

inclusion of such materials.

After the occurrence of all events specified in 9 31-32, Omni and its
26.

27.

officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have actual notice
of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly, may not draft
the bank account of a borrower who has an outstanding loan as of the
Effective Date (unless the borrower has, as of the Effective Date, elected to
repay the loan by EFT as the borrower’s primary repayment method) unless
Omni obtains a new authorization to draft that borrower’s bank account. The
new authorization must be in writing, which may be electronic, and signed
by the consumer. Omni must Clearly and Prominently disclose to the
consumer that the authorization is optional.

For loans made after the occurrence of all events specified in 4 31-32,
Omni and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have
actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly,
may not accept a payment by allotment without first obtaining authorization
that is signed by the consumer to repay by allotment. Such authorization,
which may be electronic, must be in a document that is separate from the
loan contract document and any other document and must Clearly and
Prominently disclose to the consumer that repayment by allotment is
optional and that the consumer may change his or her repayment method at
any time.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date and at least annually thereafter, Omni

10
28.

29.

must provide a training to each employee involved in loan origination. Such
training must inform the employee that no consumer is required to repay his

or her loan by allotment.

Omni and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who have
actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or indirectly,
may not:

a. take any action to incentivize Omni’s employees, contractors, or other
agents to obtain authorizations from consumers to repay loans by
allotment; or

b. consider the number or rate of consumers that have elected to repay their
loans by allotment (or any proxy thereof) when evaluating the
performance of any employee, contractor, or other agent.

Beginning no later than 30 days of the Effective Date, Omni must provide

each consumer with a written statement, which may be electronic, for

each billing cycle, within a reasonably prompt time after the payment due

date, that Clearly and Prominently contains at least the following:

a. loan balance;

b. the total of all payments received since the last statement;

c. the total of all payments received since the beginning of the calendar

year;

1]
30.

31.

d. the amount due for the next payment; and

e. any fees assessed.
VI.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Omni must submit to the Enforcement

Director for review and determination of non-objection a comprehensive

compliance plan designed to ensure that Omni’s repayment-selection

practices comply with all applicable Federal consumer financial laws, the

MLA, and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The

Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent Order;

b. draft communications required under § 24 and information about their
dissemination;

c. draft authorizations referred to in 9§ 25 and 26 and information about their
dissemination; and

d. specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps
described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a

determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Omni to

revise it. If the Enforcement Director directs Omni to revise the
12
32.

33.

34.

35.

Compliance Plan, Omni must revise and resubmit the Compliance Plan to

the Enforcement Director within 15 days.

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has madea
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Omni must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and
timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
VIL.

Role of the Board
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The Board must review all submissions (including plans, reports, programs,
policies, and procedures) required by this Consent Order before submission
to the Bureau.
Although this Consent Order requires Omni to submit certain documents for
review or non-objection by the Enforcement Director, the Board will have
the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound management of Omni and
for ensuring that Omni complies with the laws that the Bureau enforces,
including Federal consumer financial laws, the MLA, and this Consent
Order.
In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure

adherence to the Consent Order, or perform certain obligations of Omni, the

13
36.

37.

38.

Board must:

a. authorize whatever actions are necessary for Omni to fully comply with
the Consent Order;

b. require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of
compliance obligations; and

c. Require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any material
non-compliance with any failures to comply with Omni directives related
to this Section.

MONETARY PROVISIONS
VI.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in § IV of this Consent Order, and taking into
account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Omni must pay a civil money
penalty of $2,175,000 to the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Omni must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in

14
39.

40.

the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,

12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

Omni, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under this
Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how the
Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Omni may not:
a. claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. seek or accept, directly or indirectly, retmbursement or indemnification
from any source, including but not limited to payment made under any
insurance policy, with regard to any civil money penalty paid under this
Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Omni may not argue that Omni is entitled to, nor may
Omni benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory monetary
remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the civil
money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the Bureau
makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related Consumer
Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory monetary
remedies imposed against Omni based on the civil money penalty paid in

this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes from the Civil

15
Al.

42.

43.

44,

Penalty Fund, Omni must, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting

such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the amount of the offset

or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will not be considered an
additional civil money penalty and will not change the amount of the civil
money penalty imposed in this action.

IX.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Omni’s obligations to make payment under
this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as amended,
will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of default to
the date of payment, and will immediately become due and payable.
Omni relinquishes all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid to the
fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be returned to
Omni.
Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Omni, unless it already has done so, must furnish
to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be used for
purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount arising out of
this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement

16
45.

46.

in a Related Consumer Action, Omni must notify the Enforcement Director

of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That

notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Omni paid or is
required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of
consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.
COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
X.
Reporting Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Omni must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Omni; or a change in Omni’s name or address.
Omni must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days before the
development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the development.
Within seven days of the Effective Date, Omni must:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and postal

17
47.

48.

addresses as points of contact that the Bureau may use to communicate

with Omni;

identify all businesses for which Omni is the majority owner, or that
Omni directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names, telephone
numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet addresses; and
describe the activities of each such business, including the products and

services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and sales.

Omni must report any change in the information required to be submitted

under 4 46 at least 30 days before the change or as soon as practicable after

the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Omni must submit to the

Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by the Board, sworn to under

penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Omni has complied
with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order;
describes in detail the manner and form in which Omni has complied

with the Compliance Plan; and

18
49.

50.

SI.

52.

c. attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under § XI,

unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XI.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within seven days of the Effective Date, Omni must submit to the
Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Omni must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its Board members and executive officers, as well
as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of the
Consent Order.
For five years from the Effective Date, Omni must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in § X, any future Board members and executive officers, as well
as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents and
representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.

Omni must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt of a

19
53.

54.

copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures comply

with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. $$ 7001-7006, within 30

days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent Order

under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Omni must provide the Bureau witha

list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was delivered

through that date under 9§ 50-51 and a copy of all signed and dated

statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under § 52.

XII.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Omni must create and retain the following business records:

a. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance with
each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions to the
Bureau;

b. all documents and records necessary to demonstrate any borrower’s
military status at the time of loan application and the repayment method
selected by each borrower;

c. all consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received directly

or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses to those

20
55.

56.

complaints or requests; and

d. records showing, for each employee who assists consumers with applying

for or closing loans, that person’s name, telephone number, email,
physical, and postal address, job title or position, dates of service, and, if
applicable, the reason for termination.
Omni must make the documents identified in § 54 available to the Bureau
upon the Bureau’s request
XII.
Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Omni must provide all
submissions, requests, communications, or other documents relating to this
Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re Omni Financial, File
No. 2020-BCFP-0028,” and send them by overnight courier or first-class
mail to the below address and contemporaneously by email to
Enforcement_ Compliance@cfpb.gov:
Assistant Director for Enforcement
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552.

21
57.

58.

59.

XIV.

Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Omni must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity and
location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected Consumer.
Omni must provide such information tn its or its agents’ possession or

control within 14 days of receiving a written request from the Bureau.

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Omni must
submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested information, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony; or
produce documents.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Omni’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Omni who has
agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.

22
60. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.

XVI.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

61. Omni may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this Consent
Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.

62. The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
XVII.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

63. The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent

the Bureau from taking any other action against Omni, except as described

in ¥ 64. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Consent

23
64.

65.

66.

Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any other person or
governmental agency from taking any action against Omni.

The Bureau releases and discharges Omni from all potential liability for law
violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the practices
described in § IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such practices
occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about them as of
the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in this
Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Omni and its affiliates,
including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of violations
or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to calculate the
amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect any right of
the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the Consent Order, or
to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate five years from the Effective Date or five
years from the most recent date that the Bureau initiates an action alleging

any violation of the Consent Order by Omni. If such action is dismissed or

24
67.

68.

69.

the relevant adjudicative body rules that Omni did not violate any provision
of the Consent Order, and the dismissal or ruling is either not appealed or
upheld on appeal, then the Consent Order will terminate as though the action
had never been filed. The Consent Order will remain effective and
enforceable until such time, except to the extent that any provisions of this
Consent Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in
writing by the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Omni seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that are
subject to this Consent Order, Omni must, as a condition of sale, obtain the
written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all applicable
provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under §1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve Omni
wherever Omni may be found, and Omni may not contest that court’s

personal jurisdiction over Omni.

25
2020-BCFP-0028 Document1 Filed 12/30/2020 Page 26 of 26

70. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

71. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Omni, its Board, officers, or employees to violate any

law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this 28th day of December, 2020.

Ket wth Krowrp
Kathleen L. Kranitiger
Director

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

 

26
