cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Omni Financial of Nevada, Inc.
for Violations of the Military Lending Act, Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and
Consumer Financial Protection Act

DEC 30, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) issued a
consent order against Omni Financial of Nevada, Inc. (Omni). The Bureau found that Omni
violated the Military Lending Act (MLA), Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA), and Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA) in connection with making installment loans. Omni,
which has its principal place of business in Las Vegas, Nevada, and operates using the
names Omni Financial and Omni Military Loans, specializes in lending to consumers
affiliated with the military. It originates tens of thousands of loans each year, with individual
loans typically ranging from $500 to $10,000. The consent order requires that Omni pay a
$2.175 million civil money penalty and imposes injunctive relief to stop ongoing violations
and prevent future violations.

Today’s action is the second in the Bureau's sweep of investigations of multiple lenders that
may be violating the MLA. The MLA puts in place protections in connection with extensions
of consumer credit for active-duty servicemembers and their dependents, who are defined
as “covered borrowers.” These protections include prohibiting that loans to covered
borrowers be required to be repaid by “allotment.” The Department of Defense runs the
allotment system, which allows servicemembers to designate a portion of their paycheck to
certain recipients. The Bureau found that, since October 2016, Omnis loans to covered
borrowers violated the MLA’s prohibition of requiring repayment by allotment.

The Bureau also found that Omni violated EFTA and the CFPA. In addition to lending to
active-duty servicemembers and their dependents, Omni lends to civilians and non-covered
servicemembers, such as military retirees. The Bureau found that Omni requires all of its
borrowers to provide bank-account information and authorize Omni to withdraw funds from
that account on the first business day after each missed payment. Omni's requirement that
consumers allow it to withdraw funds from their bank accounts violates EFTA’s prohibition
against requiring consumers to preauthorize electronic fund transfers as a condition of
receiving credit. The Bureau further found that these EFTA violations constituted CFPA
violations.

In addition to prohibiting future violations, the consent order requires Omni to provide
notice of the Bureau’s findings to all customers repaying their loans by allotment along with
notice that they may change their repayment method. Omni also must provide training to
employees and is prohibited from providing any incentives to employees or performance
evaluations that consider the number or rate of consumers who choose to repay by
allotment.

The consent order is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_omni-financial-of-nevada-
inc_consent-order_2020-12.pdf¥ (cfpb.gov/documents/9443/cfpb_omni-financial-of-neva
da-inc_consent-order_2020-12.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 
 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
