2020-BCFP-0002 Document1 Filed 05/11/2020 Page 1 of 32

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0002

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER
SPECIALIZED LOAN
SERVICING, LLC

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
mortgage servicing practices of Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC (Respondent, as
defined below), specifically related to its handling of loss-mitigation applications
and its implementation of foreclosure protections required to be afforded to
borrowers engaged in the loss-mitigation process, and the Bureau has identified the
following law violations: (1) Respondent violated the Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act (RESPA), 12 U.S.C. § 2601 et seq., its implementing regulation,
Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. part 1024, and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of
2010 (CFPA) by taking prohibited foreclosure actions against certain borrowers, in
violation of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(f)(2) and (g); and (2) Respondent violated

RESPA, Regulation X, and the CFPA by failing to send or timely send evaluation
notices to certain borrowers, in violation of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1). Under 8§
1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this
Consent Order (Consent Order).

I.
Jurisdiction

l. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, RESPA, 12 U.S.C. § 2601 et seq., and its
implementing regulation, Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. part 1024.

I.
Stipulation

2. Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated April 23, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated by
reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent has
consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under §§

1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5563,5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

II.
Definitions

3. The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:
‘Affected Consumer” is a borrower who was subjected to any of the
following actions, as defined below: Foreclosure Violation, Untimely
Evaluation Notice, or No Evaluation Notice.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

‘Evaluation Notice” means, as required by 12 C.F.R.

§ 1024.41(c)(1)(i1), the written notice servicers must send to a
borrower within 30 days of receiving a complete Loss-Mitigation
Application if the complete Loss-Mitigation Application was received
more than 37 days before a foreclosure sale. Such notice states the
servicer’s determination of which Loss-Mitigation Options, if any, it
will offer to the borrower on behalf of the owner or assignee of the
mortgage.

“First Filing” means, as set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41, the first
notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-
judicial foreclosure process.

‘Foreclosure Violation” means an instance in which Respondent took
one of the following actions in violation of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41
against a borrower entitled to foreclosure protections under 12 C.F.R.

§ 1024.41:
1. Making a First Filing;

ll. Moving for Judgment; or

lll. Conducting a foreclosure sale.

“Loss-Mitigation Application” means, as set forth in 12 C.F.R.

§ 1024.31, an oral or written request for a Loss-Mitigation Option that
is accompanied by any information required by a servicer for
evaluation for a Loss-Mitigation Option.

“Loss-Mitigation Option” means, as set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 1024.31,
an alternative to foreclosure offered by the owner or assignee of a
mortgage loan that is made available through the servicer to the
borrower.

“Moving for Judgment” means, as set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41, a
servicer’s moving for foreclosure judgment or order of sale, including
making a dispositive motion for foreclosure judgment, such as a
motion for default judgment, judgment on the pleadings, or summary
judgment, which may directly result in a judgment of foreclosure or
order of sale. With respect to borrowers for whom Respondent did not
maintain a record of such motions, the term includes the entry of a
foreclosure judgment. In non-judicial foreclosure proceedings, the

term includes the sending, recording, posting, or publishing of the
notice of sale, except in cases where sending, recording, posting, or
publishing of the notice of sale is the First Filing or is a filing that is
necessary to effect a postponement of sale scheduled before the
foreclosure protections afforded under 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41 applied.
“No Evaluation Notice” means the borrower was entitled to receive an
Evaluation Notice under 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1)(i1), but
Respondent failed to send the borrower an Evaluation Notice.
‘“Non-Retention Application” means a Loss-Mitigation Application
submitted by a borrower who indicated a preference for a Loss-
Mitigation Option that was an alternative to foreclosure that would
allow the borrower to leave his or her home.

“Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the West Region
for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection or his or her delegate.

“Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on
substantially the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent

Order.
m. “Relevant Period” includes the period from January 10, 2014 to the
Effective Date.

n. “Respondent” means Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC and tts
successors and assigns.

oO. “Untimely Evaluation Notice” means the borrower was entitled to
receive an Evaluation Notice under 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1)(ii), but
Respondent failed to send the borrower an Evaluation Notice within
30 days of receiving the complete Loss-Mitigation Application.

IV.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Respondent is a residential-mortgage servicer located in Highlands Ranch,
Colorado. As of February 29, 2020, Respondent serviced a portfolio of
mortgage loans worth about $112.69 billion.

Respondent is a “covered person” as defined by 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6) and a
“servicer” as defined by 12 C.F.R. § 1024.2(b) because, among other things,
it services loans and is responsible for servicing federally related mortgage

loans within the meaning of 12 C.F.R. § 1024.2(b).
Findings and Conclusions
as to Respondent’s Prohibited Foreclosure Actions

Regulation X generally protects a borrower who has submitted a facially
complete or complete Loss-Mitigation Application from certain foreclosure
activities from the date the borrower submits a facially complete or complete
Loss-Mitigation Application through specific end dates. For facially
complete Loss-Mitigation Applications, foreclosure protections continue
through the period in which the borrower is given a reasonable opportunity
to provide the additional information or documents necessary to complete
the Loss-Mitigation Application. For complete Loss-Mitigation
Applications, including those that are facially complete and become
complete, foreclosure protections continue until the determination of
whether an alternative to foreclosure is viable and while the parties are
working toward such an alternative, unless one of the circumstances
specified in 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(£)(2) or (g) is met.
During this period, Regulation X prohibits a servicer from:
a. making the First Filing, if the borrower submits the complete Loss-
Mitigation Application before the servicer making the First Filing;
b. Moving for Judgment, if the borrower submits the complete Loss-
Mitigation Application after the servicer made the First Filing but

more than 37 days before a foreclosure sale; and
8.

10.

C. conducting a foreclosure sale, if the borrower submits the complete
Loss-Mitigation Application after the servicer made the First Filing
but more than 37 days before a foreclosure sale. 12 C.F.R. §
1024.41(f)(2), (g).

Regulation X requires these foreclosure protections to remain in place until:

a. the servicer sends an Evaluation Notice advising the borrower that he
or she is not eligible for any Loss-Mitigation Options and the appeal
period in 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(h) is not applicable, the borrower has
not requested an appeal within the applicable period for requesting an
appeal, or the borrower’s appeal has been denied;

b. the borrower rejects all Loss-Mitigation Options offered by the
servicer; or

C. the borrower fails to perform under an agreement on a Loss-
Mitigation Option. 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(f)(2)(i)-(iil), (g)(1)-(3).

These protections apply to all complete Loss-Mitigation Applications,

regardless of whether the borrower indicated a preference for a Loss-

Mitigation Option that allows him or her to retain the home.

Since January 10, 2014, Respondent made First Filings, moved for

foreclosure judgment or an order of sale, and conducted foreclosure sales in
11.

12.

13.

14.

certain instances where the borrower was entitled to protection from these
actions under Regulation X. 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(f)(2), (g).

Respondent therefore violated RESPA, 12 U.S.C. § 2601 et seq., and its
implementing regulation, Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(f)(2), (g), by
making First Filings, moving for foreclosure judgments or orders for sale,
and conducting foreclosure sales when the borrower was entitled to
protection from those actions. These violations are also violations of the
CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A), because they reflect an act or omission
committed in violation of a Federal consumer financial law.

Findings and Conclusions as to Respondent’s
Failures to Send or Timely Send Evaluation Notices

Regulation X requires servicers, within 30 days of receiving a complete
Loss-Mitigation Application from a borrower, to evaluate the borrower for
all available loss-mitigation options and to give the borrower an Evaluation
Notice regarding those options. 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1).

Since January 10, 2014, Respondent failed to send or timely send Evaluation
Notices to certain borrowers who were entitled to Evaluation Notices under
Regulation X. 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1)(ii).

Respondent therefore violated RESPA, 12 U.S.C. § 2601 et seq., and its

implementing regulation, Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(c)(1)(qi), and
15.

2020-BCFP-0002 Document1 Filed 05/11/2020 Page 10 of 32

also the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A), by committing an act or
omission in violation of a Federal consumer financial law.
ORDER

V.
Conduct Provisions

IT IS ORDERED, under 88 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, may not violate RESPA, 12 U.S.C. § 2601 et seq., and its
implementing regulation, Regulation X, 12 C.F.R. part 1024, and must take
the following affirmative actions:

a. develop and implement policies and procedures that ensure borrowers
are appropriately protected from prohibited foreclosure events in
accordance with 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(f)(2) & (g), including:

1. ensuring that Respondent does not make First Filings against
borrowers who submit facially complete or complete Loss-
Mitigation Applications during the pre-foreclosure review
period set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41((1) or before
Respondent makes the First Filing, if the Loss-Mitigation
Applications meet all other requirements for foreclosure

protections under 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41;
il.

iil.

lV.

AMAR APE ARAM
AHH Bee AAAS
Sa tet a

~~ . 3 pees OE Pa A ER - . Aw cme
Phevesirpvcant 4 Ratan OP Tren ony Bian dt af 23
BA AEN Pa POPS! APG ob PP ala : ghee Fob Geb whee

ensuring that Respondent does not move for foreclosure
judgments or orders of sale, or conduct foreclosure sales against
borrowers who submit facially complete or complete Loss-
Mitigation Applications more than 37 days before the
foreclosure sales, if the Loss-Mitigation Applications meet all
other requirements for foreclosure protections under 12 C.F.R.
§ 1024.41;
ensuring that Respondent continues the foreclosure protections
described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (11) above until borrowers
meet one of the conditions listed under 12 C.F.R.
§ 1024.41(f)(2)(1)-(ill) & (g)(1)-(3), as applicable; and
ensuring that Respondent provides foreclosure protections
required by 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41, including the placement of
timely foreclosure holds.
review and monitor Respondent’s foreclosure actions to ensure that
borrowers receive the required foreclosure protections, that
Respondent’s personnel are adhering to Respondent’s policies and
procedures, and that controls to ensure effective compliance have

been implemented;
APA PRR AR A ~ : of pansy SE a a re
AAO Beem AAAS Pree ey ceed of Pilar MR fA tPF OA
oe ee ol ee ee ee POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTEAP RE EPS RPP wid ete
on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd eke A? : re

develop and implement policies and procedures that ensure that
Respondent will provide Evaluation Notices to borrowers within 30
days of receipt of their complete Loss-Mitigation Applications.
record, maintain, and track activities and events that evidence
compliance with 12 C.F.R. §§ 1024.41(b)(2), (c)(1), (f)(2), and (g) as
information in data fields or information that can be derived from data
fields in Respondent’s information system.

record and maintain the data required by Paragraph 15(d) in a manner
that allows Respondent to produce it readily upon request.

implement controls to ensure that Respondent’s personnel are
correctly entering data into Respondent’s information system,
including the information required by Paragraph 15(d).

monitor foreclosure activity to ensure that before an action is taken, it
is not prohibited by 12 C.F.R. § 1024.41(£)(2) or (g), including
checking a Loss-Mitigation Application’s status and whether a
document has been submitted that could make the application facially
complete or complete.

monitor and test foreclosure holds to ensure they are timely placed
and are effective from the date Respondent received the document

making an application facially complete or complete, and ensure that
APA PE OA PR Aa sy PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pe ewe «EOS
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad OS5/1 7/2080 Pane Ta of 32
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE BA AEN Pa POPS Ae ob bP a ea : Lag kek Ret NP ne

no Foreclosure Violation occurs between the date Respondent
received the facially complete or complete application and the date
foreclosure counsel put the foreclosure proceeding on hold;

1. monitor and test foreclosure activity to ensure that foreclosure counsel
take reasonable steps in response to the placement of a hold, including
taking reasonable steps to avoid a ruling on motions that may directly
result in a judgment of foreclosure or order of sale;

J. promptly instruct or provide guidance to foreclosure counsel to stop
foreclosure activity, or to take all reasonable steps to avoid a ruling on
any pending motions for judgment or orders of sale, when a Loss-
Mitigation Application is complete or facially complete;

k. develop written policies and procedures that ensure compliance with
12 C.F.R. § 1024.41, train and re-train all personnel and service
providers on the written policies and procedures developed with
appropriate frequency and implement controls to test Respondent’s
personnel’s compliance with its policies and procedures with
appropriate frequency.

VI.
Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
16.

17.

18.

YAM PETAR A PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Rew A ee OE
POORER BLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian OS Pt Foren Rane tT4 af 23
SNP eM Pee E é BP ASLP PERG Gk og yobs fuer bo PP ma 3 Lage A RSE alee

Within 60 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s loss-
mitigation and foreclosure procedures comply with all applicable Federal
consumer financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance
Plan). The Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:
detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Order;
specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps
described above; and
a procedure for recording and tracking the activities and events that
evidence compliance with this Order.
The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If the
Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must revise and resubmit the Compliance Plan to the Regional
Director within 30 days.
After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.
19.

20.

21.

APA PE OA PR Aa sy PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Rowe, AT RE eS
POORER BLA Paciiyent 4 Blan OS Pt faye Bane TR Af 23
eae eM PD Foe BP ASLP PERG Gk og grits Purh ob GP ee 5 Keke ob GP kee rs

VIL.
Order to Pay Redress

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Redress will be paid in three forms to Affected Consumers, by Respondent
applying funds to outstanding principal loan balances, providing payments
by check and waiving borrower deficiencies.

Within 10 business days of the Effective Date, Respondent must reserve or
deposit into a segregated deposit account $775,000 for the purpose of
providing redress payments to Affected Consumers as required by this
section.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive written
plan for providing redress consistent with this Consent Order (Redress Plan).
The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If the
Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Redress Plan,
Respondent must revise and resubmit the Redress Plan to the Regional
Director within 30 days. After receiving notification that the Regional
Director has made a determination of non-objection to the Redress Plan,
Respondent must implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations,

deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the Redress Plan.
AON RE AMA
AOL BER AGA
SSP eM a

~ . 3 pees OE Pa A ER ~* Am EAS
Pieacmiyrent 4 Ratan OP Tren ony Bian F af 23
BASE EPA EA yobs Purr PPP Ue 5 Lake PAP a

22. The Redress Plan must, at a minimum, apply to all Affected Consumers and:

a.

specify how Respondent will identify all Affected Consumers,
including its methodology for identifying each Untimely Evaluation
Notice, No Evaluation Notice, and Foreclosure Violation that
occurred for each Affected Consumer, and specify the amount of
redress to be paid to each Affected Consumer, although the Bureau
will have sole discretion to make a final determination of the amounts
of the payments to be made to Affected Consumers under the Redress
Plan, so long as the total amount of redress does not exceed $775,000;
provide for the waiver of $500,000 in borrower deficiencies, to be
applied to borrowers’ accounts no later than 30 days after the
completion of the Redress Plan;

include a deadline by which the initial redress payments or credits will
be made to Affected Consumers, which may not be later than 45 days
from the Regional Director’s determination of non-objection to the
Redress Plan;

include the form of the letters or other communications (Redress
Notification Letter) to be sent to Affected Consumers who are
receiving redress from Respondent and the form of the envelopes that

will contain the Redress Notification Letters. The Redress
ARAAR RAP ANAS PA ee emt ot at da a IY mh. AY ES
POS OR CER LOGOS Rocumeant 4 Pilad OS/1Tfeoon Rane Ty of RE
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE BA AEN Pa POEMS! Ae ob PP cue : gk OF Fk whe

Notification Letters and form envelopes must be approved by the
Regional Director. Any changes made to the Redress Notification
Letters or form envelopes by the Regional Director must be included.
The Redress Notification Letters must explain why the Affected
Consumer is receiving redress, state that Respondent is providing
redress because of this Consent Order, and direct the Affected
Consumer to the Bureau’s website address that contains the Consent
Order. Respondent may not include in any envelope containing a
Redress Notification Letter any materials other than the approved
letter and redress check, unless Respondent obtains written
confirmation from the Regional Director that the Bureau does not
object to the inclusion of the additional materials;

when Respondent makes redress payments to Affected Consumers,
require the checks be sent by United States Postal Service first-class
mail, address-correction service requested, to the Affected
Consumer’s most recent address as maintained in Respondent’s
records;

for any Affected Consumer whose redress payment is returned or
whose check is not cashed in 90 days, require Respondent to make

reasonable attempts to obtain a current address using standard
23.

24.

YAM PETAR A PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pee OE OE
POP ORCE BLAIS Poacienent 4 Filla O8/ 14 feneo Bane TR of Re
Batt UPd $m BA AEN Pa PPPS Ae ob Pa ea : Xe e PAS a

address-search methodologies, including a standard address search
using the National Change of Address system and to promptly re-mail
all returned redress checks to current addresses, if any; and
g. if the check for any eligible consumer is returned to Respondent or if
the check is not cashed within 90 days after a second mailing, and ifa
current mailing address cannot be identified using standard address
search methodologies, require Respondent to maintain and disburse
the funds according to its processes for handling unclaimed funds.
Within 45 days of completion of the Redress Plan, Respondent’s internal
audit department must review and assess Respondent’s compliance with the
terms of the Redress Plan (Redress Review).
The Redress Review must include an assessment of the Redress Plan and the
methodology used to identify Affected Consumers and the applicable
violations for Affected Consumers that qualify them to receive redress under
this Consent Order, the Redress Amount for each Affected Consumer, the
procedures used to issue and track payments of the Redress Amounts to
Affected Consumers, and whether the Redress Plan has been properly
executed. The Redress Review must also include an audit of the Redress
Amount to provide reasonable assurance that Affected Consumers received

the correct Redress Amount.
25.

26.

27.

28.

YAM PETAR A PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pew A OE
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Eiecd GSftTfeoeo Rane To of Re
Sa teed é BHAA Ed YP OPIREAS Wea ob PP col : SNe oF GP ad wre

The Redress Review will be summarized in a written report (Redress
Review Report), which must be submitted to the Regional Director within
60 days of completion of the Redress Review.

After completing the Redress Plan, if the amount of redress payments
provided to Affected Consumers is less than $775,000, within 30 days of the
completion of the Redress Plan, Respondent must pay to the Bureau, by wire
transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent, and according to the
Bureau’s wiring instructions, the difference between the amount of redress
provided to Affected Consumers and $775,000.

The Bureau may use these remaining funds to pay additional redress to
Affected Consumers. If the Bureau determines, in its sole discretion, that
additional redress is wholly or partially impracticable or otherwise
inappropriate, or if funds remain after the additional redress is completed,
the Bureau will deposit any remaining funds in the U.S. Treasury as
disgorgement. Respondent will have no right to challenge any actions that
the Bureau or its representatives may take under this section.

Respondent may not condition the payment of any redress to any Affected
Consumer under this Consent Order on that Affected Consumer waiving any

right.
29.

30.

31.

32.

ARAM PARR AMAR ~~ . 3 omy me rot Ee — me oT
2OAOHL Re RAGA Mie issycinmt 4 Sian Sasa Peon Banas GO at 23
MPR TELS Le PG WAI RARE EAD EE od PPPs peor PP ee PO SRR 2 Al Ge

VI.
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $250,000 to the Bureau.
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in compliance
with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondent must treat the civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order
as a penalty paid to the government for all purposes. Regardless of how the
Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order;
seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to payment
made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil money

penalty paid under this Consent Order.
33.

34.

APA PE OA PR Aa sy PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pe ee Tet UE
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad OS/1Tfeoon Mana Ot of 36
Sao Te é BHAA Ed PiSeka Ae boas Son ot ge ab ke

To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty, in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the
civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. Ifthe court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau and pay the
amount of the offset reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will not
be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

IX.
Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. 8 1961, as

amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
35.

36.

37.

YAM PETAR A PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pe ewe, TR AE RS
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad OS/1Tfeoon Mare 2D of 3S
Sao Te é BHAA Ed PiSeka Ae boas Son ot pie at, ke

default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry ofa final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Regional
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.
38.

39.

APA PE OA PR Aa sy PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pe ee, TRO LE RS
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad OS5/1 7/2080 Pana 2a of 32
on at te PE te AEN Ed PPPS Ae ob Pa ea : Leg Se cae at PS

X.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect

compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not

limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices
subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or
address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days
before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 business days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal address as points of contact, which the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet

addresses; and
40.

4].

ARAN RAPA ANAS PN oe a enh oh a da A Pe a
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Eiecd GSftTfeoeo Pane 24 af 32
Sao Te Fm BHAA Ed POPS! APG ob PP ala : ghee ap GS wie

describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and

sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 39 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the Effective

Date, Respondent must submit to the Regional Director an accurate written

compliance progress report (Compliance Report), sworn to under penalty of

perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Order and
describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;

describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Redress Plan; and

attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XI (Order Distribution and Acknowledgment), unless

previously submitted to the Bureau.
42.

43.

44,

45.

YAM PETAR A PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pe ewe TREE RE OS
POS OR CER LOGOS Racument 4 Eiecd GSftTfeoeo Rane OS of RE
Sa teed $m BHAA Ed YP OPIREAS Wea ob PP col : She ger Al wie

XI.
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 business days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,
sworn under penalty of perjury.

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its executive officers as well as to any managers,
employees, service providers, or other agents and representatives who have
responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section X, as well as to any managers, employees, service
providers, or other agents and representatives who will have responsibilities
related to the subject matter of the Consent Order before they assume their
responsibilities.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 et seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent

Order under this section.
46.

PPA PEER OA
2A Be DAA
Ba Sf tn ST et

a 4 Po aT a A ESA ro oe fA
Paciiyent 4 Beran Pea Pt a Peron Rane PH af 23
BAAS PEASE Ed SOPRA Weare ob Pree : Lhe a. Xa DP Ee

XII.
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must create and retain the following business records:

a.

all documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

all documents and records pertaining to the Redress Plan;

copies of all template communications with borrowers engaged in the
loss-mitigation process, all policies and procedures related to loss-
mitigation and foreclosure, all training materials related to the loss-
mitigation process and foreclosure; and all data related to the
servicing of loans, including the data elements required by Section V;
for each individual Affected Consumer: the consumer’s name, last
known address, last known phone number, and last known email
address (if available), amounts paid, date on which Respondent began
servicing the Affected Consumer’s loan, and the date on which
Respondent stopped servicing the Affected Consumer’s loan, if
applicable; and

all consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received

directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses
APA PE OA PR Aa sy PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pe ewe, PROP LE eS
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad OS/1Tfeoon Mana OY of 3S
Bad ae MRP De Fm BHAA Ed POEMS! Ae ob PP cue : Ae a Pk we

to those complaints or requests.
47. Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 46 available
to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIII.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

48. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re
Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC, File No. 2020-CFPB-0002,” and send
them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement_Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Regional Director, West Region

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
301 Howard Street, Suite 1200

San Francisco, CA 94105

XIV.
Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
49. Respondent must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity
and location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected

Consumer. Respondent must provide such information in its or its agents’
50.

ASP RS SRT A as PN ge ee au of Pray wat PLR Fat A PP PA ee ew ee PE a EP
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Eiecd GSftTfeoeo Rana OR of RE
Sao Te $m BA AEN Pa PPPS Ae ob Pa ea : Lede Ae a

possession or control within 14 days of receiving a written request from the
Bureau.

Respondent must cooperate fully with the Bureau in this matter and in any
investigation related to or associated with the conduct described in Section
IV. Respondent must provide truthful and complete information, evidence,
and testimony. Respondent must cause Respondent’s officers, employees,
representatives, and agents to appear for interviews, discovery, hearings,
trials, and any other proceedings that the Bureau may reasonably request
upon 10 days’ written notice, or other reasonable notice, at such places and
times as the Bureau may designate, without the service of compulsory
process.

XV.
Compliance Monitoring

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, to monitor Respondent’s compliance

with this Consent Order:

SI.

Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, which must be made under penalty of perjury;
provide sworn testimony related to requirements of this Consent Order and

Respondent’s compliance with those requirements; and produce non-
52.

53.

54.

55.

APA PE OA PR Aa sy PN wud Ph PT at EO ek Pe ewe TET TS
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Eiecd GSftTfeoeo Pane BO af Re
Sa teed $m BHAA Ed YP OPIREAS Wea ob PP col : SNS PA whe

privileged documents related to requirements of this Consent Order and
Respondent’s compliance with those requirements.

For purposes of this section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.

Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel
present.

Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.

XVI.
Modifications to Non-Material Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to nonmaterial requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting

requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional Director.
56.

57.

58.

59.

RPA PEE Am Am ~ . A pay SORE Fe Ee
AAO Beem AAAS Pree ey ceed of Pilar MR fA tPF OA
ee eh bate ore bev a de td POSMOUCE UY TUES: of PT PTEAP RE EPS RPP wid ete
on at ot Pt RPA TAS Pd eke A? : re

The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any nonmaterial
requirements of this Consent Order if he or she determines good cause
justifies the modification. Any such modification must be in writing.

XVII.
Administrative Provisions

The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau, or any other governmental agency, from taking any other action
against Respondent, except as described in Paragraph 58.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations, or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final

Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
60.

61.

62.

63.

ARAA BAP ANA PN oe a ety et a a Pe
POS OR CER LOGOS Pocument 7 Pilad OS/1Tfeoon
Soke eR Pee RPA TAS Pd Pitas Pur oF : < ;

expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the Effective Date. The
Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable until such time, except
to the extent that any provisions of this Consent Order have been amended,
suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by the Bureau or its designated
agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are Subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not

contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.
2020-BCFP-0002 Document1 Filed 05/11/2020 Page 32 of 32

64. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete
agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

65. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
— as allowing Respondent, its officers, or employees to violate any

law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this — day st apt oan
Kee these (a

Kathleen Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

32
