cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Settles with Specialized Loan Servicing,
LLC

MAY 11, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) settled
with Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC (SLS), a mortgage-loan servicer in Colorado. As of
February 29, 2020, SLS serviced a portfolio of mortgage loans worth about $112.69 billion.
The consent order requires SLS to pay $1.275 million in monetary relief to consumers in the
form of redress and waiver of borrower deficiencies, pay a $250,000 civil money penalty,
which will be paid to the Bureau and deposited into the Bureau's Civil Penalty Fund, and
implement procedures to ensure compliance with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures
Act (RESPA) and its implementing regulation, Regulation X.

The Bureau's investigation found that since January 2014, SLS violated RESPA and
Regulation X by taking prohibited foreclosure actions against mortgage borrowers who
were entitled to protection from foreclosure, and by failing to send or to timely send
evaluation notices to mortgage borrowers who were entitled to them. These violations also
constitute violations of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010. In some cases, SLS’s
violations of Regulation X short-circuited the protections against foreclosure for consumers
whose homes were ultimately foreclosed upon.

Under the settlement, SLS will pay $775,000 in restitution to affected consumers according
to a redress plan that the Bureau will approve. SLS will also pay a $250,000 civil money
penalty to the Bureau, and will waive $500,000 in borrower deficiencies. The settlement
requires SLS to implement policies and procedures that will ensure that borrowers receive
the protections from foreclosure to which they are entitled under RESPA and Regulation X,
including preventing SLS from improperly making first filings, from improperly moving for
foreclosure judgments or orders of sale, and from conducting foreclosure sales against
borrowers who have submitted timely and facially complete or complete loss-mitigation
applications. SLS must also monitor its foreclosure activity to ensure that it complies with the
policies and procedures that it must implement.

A copy of the consent order filed with the Bureau is available at:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_specialized-loan-servicing_consent-

 

order_2020-05.pdf)
#HH

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
