Release Number 7209-15

  

August 6, 2015

CFTC Orders Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC to Pay a $300,000 Civil Monetary Penalty for
Violations of Customer Protection Rule for Cleared Swaps and Related Supervision Failures

Order Finds that the Firm Failed to Maintain Sufficient U.S. Dollars in
Segregated Accounts in the United States, Holding Required Funds
Instead in Other Currencies

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today issued an Order requiring Morgan
Stanley & Co. LLC (Morgan Stanley), a registered Futures Commission Merchant and provisionally registered swap
dealer, to pay a $300,000 civil monetary penalty for failing to hold sufficient U.S. Dollars in segregated accounts in the
United States to meet all of its U.S. Dollar obligations to cleared swaps customers. The Order also finds that the firm
failed to implement adequate procedures and requires Morgan Stanley to cease and desist from violating CFTC
Regulations, as charged.

Aitan Goelman, the CFTC’s Director of Enforcement, commented: “Since passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act, the CFTC has implemented rules to protect swaps customers and market participants,
including rules for protection of cleared swaps customer collateral. This action demonstrates that the Division of
Enforcement will investigate and pursue violations of these important rules of the road in the swaps market.”

As set forth in the Order, on numerous days from March 12, 2013 to March 7, 2014, Morgan Stanley failed to hold
sufficient U.S. Dollars in segregated accounts in the United States to meet all U.S. Dollar obligations to the firm’s cleared
swaps customers, in violation of CFTC Regulation 22.9. On those days, Morgan Stanley held the amount of the U.S. Dollar
deficits in Euros and other currencies, rather than in U.S. Dollars, according to the Order. Because Morgan Stanley held
the amount of the U.S. Dollar deficits in other currencies, it did not have a shortfall in overall cleared swaps customer
collateral. As the Order finds, however, the size of Morgan Stanley’s U.S. Dollar deficits ranged from approximately $5
million to approximately $265 million, at times representing more than 10 percent of the amount that the firm was
obligated to maintain in U.S. Dollars for cleared swaps customers.

Additionally, the Order finds that from November 8, 2012 to on or about April 8, 2014, Morgan Stanley did not have in
place adequate procedures to comply with the currency denomination requirements for cleared swaps customer
collateral and did not train and supervise its personnel to ensure compliance with CFTC Regulation 22.9. Morgan Stanley
thereby failed to supervise diligently its officers, employees, and agents and did not have sufficient procedures in place
to detect and deter the violations found herein, in violation of Regulation 166.3, the Order finds.

The Order recognizes that Morgan Stanley promptly reported the deficiencies to the CFTC, implemented corrective
procedures, and cooperated with the CFTC’s Division of Enforcement in its investigation.

The CFTC appreciates the assistance of the Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight.

The CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Elizabeth C. Brennan, Douglas K. Yatter,
Lenel Hickson, Jr., and Manal M. Sultan.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: August 6, 2015
