#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, December 21, 2017

Former Embraer Sales Executive Pleads Guilty to Foreign Bribery and Related Charges

A former sales executive of Embraer S.A. (Embraer), a Brazilian-based manufacturer of aircraft, pleaded guilty today in connection with a
scheme to pay bribes to a high-level foreign government official in exchange for assistance in securing Embraer’s sale of aircraft to Saudi
Arabia’s national oil company.

Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim of the Southern
District of New York, Assistant Director Stephen E. Richardson of the FBI’s Criminal Investigative Division and Special Agent in Charge Robert F.
Lasky of the FBI’s Miami Field Office made the announcement.

Colin Steven, 61, a U.K. citizen residing in the United Arab Emirates, was charged by information filed today in the Southern District of New York
with one count of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA, one count of wire fraud, one
count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, one count of money laundering, one count of conspiracy to launder money and one count of making a
false statement. Steven pleaded guilty to all of those counts before U.S. District Judge Alison J. Nathan of the Southern District of New York. A
sentencing date has not been scheduled yet. The Court set a control date of June 21, 2018.

As part of his plea, Steven, a former vice president of sales & marketing in Embraer’s Executive Jets Division, admitted that he engaged ina
scheme to have Embraer pay bribes to a foreign official in exchange for assistance in getting an aircraft sales contract with favorable terms
awarded to Embraer; retained a kickback as part of the scheme; and lied to law enforcement officials about his kickback.

Steven consented to the filing of the information, which alleged that Embraer was in negotiations with Saudi Arabia’s national oil company over
a potential aircraft sale when Steven and the foreign official devised an arrangement whereby the foreign official would guarantee that Embraer
would win a contract and that the contract would involve new rather than used aircraft in exchange for approximately $1.5 million in bribe
payments. In early 2010, Saudi Arabia’s national oil company awarded Embraer a contract for three new aircraft, valued at approximately $93
million. The information further alleged that he arranged to disguise the bribes as commissions to a South African company that was owned in
part by Steven's personal friends. The South African company transferred the bulk of the bribe proceeds to the foreign official’s intermediary
but, at Steven’s direction, paid a portion of the bribe proceeds to Steven.

In pleading guilty, Steven admitted that he executed, and conspired with others to execute, the bribery and kickback schemes; laundered and
conspired to launder the proceeds of those schemes through the South African company and lied to U.S. law enforcement about the kickback.

The guilty plea entered today follows the execution in October 2016 of a deferred prosecution agreement between the Department and
Embraer, under which Embraer agreed to pay a $107 million penalty to the Department as part of a $205 million global resolution to
investigations by the Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and Brazilian authorities related to corrupt conduct in several
countries, including Saudi Arabia. The agreement acknowledged Embraer’s cooperation with the investigations. With the cooperation of U.S.
authorities, Brazilian authorities have charged 11 individuals for their alleged involvement in Embraer’s misconduct in the Dominican Republic.
Saudi Arabian authorities have charged two individuals for their alleged involvement in Embraer’s misconduct in Saudi Arabia.

The FBI's International Corruption Squads, based in Miami, Florida, and Los Angeles, California, investigated the case. Trial Attorneys John-Alex
Romano and Nikhila Raj and Assistant Chief David Johnson of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Cooper
of the Southern District of New York, are prosecuting the case. The Fraud Section appreciates the cooperation and assistance provided by the
SEC in this matter.

The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this matter. The Department also appreciates the
cooperation and assistance provided by authorities in Brazil, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and Switzerland in this matter.

In 2015, the FBI formed International Corruption Squads across the country to address national and international implications of foreign
corruption.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA

enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice. gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

Attachment(s):
Downl S. Vv. lin Steven - Information

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud

Component(s):
Criminal Division
riminal - Criminal Fr tion

USAO - New York, Southern
Press Release Number:
17-1466

Updated January 2, 2018
