Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 1 of 25

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

 

HOUSTON DIVISION
)
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE )
COMMISSION, )
)
Plaintiff, ) 4:13-ev-3500
)
Vv. )
)
WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL LTD.)
)
Defendant. )
)

 

COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), alleges:

SUMMARY

1. This action arises from violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”) by Weatherford International Ltd. (“Weatherford”), a Swiss corporation with
operations in Houston, Texas, that is a global provider of equipment and services to the
oil and gas industry.

2. Between at least 2002 and July 2011, Weatherford and its subsidiaries
authorized bribes and improper travel and entertainment intended for foreign officials in
multiple countries to obtain or retain business or for other benefits. Weatherford and its
subsidiaries also authorized illicit payments to obtain commercial business in Congo and

authorized kickbacks in Iraq to obtain United Nations Oil for Food contracts.
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 2 of 25

Weatherford realized over $59.3 million in profits from business obtained through the use
of illicit payments.

3) In addition, from 2002 to 2007, Weatherford and its subsidiaries engaged
in commercial transactions with Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan (“sanctioned countries”)
that violated U.S. sanction and export control laws. During the relevant time period,
exporting or re-exporting goods or services from the United States or by a U.S. person to
sanctioned countries was generally prohibited by U.S. law. Certain employees of
Weatherford and its subsidiaries employed various schemes to conceal numerous
commercial transactions with sanctioned countries that violated U.S. sanctions and export
control laws, including creating false books and records. The company’s improper sales
to sanctioned countries generated over $118 million in revenues and more than $30
million in profits.

4. Weatherford violated Section 30A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1] when it authorized and/or paid bribes to foreign
officials in order to obtain or retain business. Weatherford violated Section 13(b)(2)(A)
of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78 m(b)(2)(A)] when it created false books and records
to conceal the authorization of bribe payments, kickbacks, and excessive travel and
entertainment, and to conceal transactions with sanctioned countries. Weatherford also
violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78 m(b)(2)(B)] by failing
to have sufficient internal accounting controls in place to detect and prevent the
authorization or payment of bribe payments and the improper sales to sanctioned

countries.
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 3 of 25

JURISDICTION
5. This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e),
and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. Weatherford,
directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce,
of the mails, or of the facilities of a national securities exchange in connection with the
transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business alleged in this Complaint.
6. Venue is appropriate in this Court under Section 27 of the Exchange Act

[15 U.S.C. § 78aa] and 28 U.S.C. § 1391(d).

DEFENDANT

7: Weatherford is a Swiss corporation with its headquarters in Geneva and
significant operations in Houston, Texas. Until March 2009, Weatherford was a
Bermuda corporation with its headquarters in Houston. It is a provider of products and
services that span the life cycles of oil and natural gas wells. Weatherford is a complex
organization comprising more than 500 legal entities. The company is organized into
geographic reporting segments as well as product and service line groups. Weatherford
oversees the operations of these diverse entities using a matrix reporting system.
Throughout the relevant period, Weatherford’s shares were registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 781] and quoted on the New York Stock
Exchange (symbol: “WFT”). The company had revenues in excess of $15 billion in

2012.
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 4 of 25

RELATED ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS

8. Weatherford Oil Tool Middle East Limited (*“WOTME?”) is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Weatherford that principally operates in North Africa and the
Middle East. It is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and is headquartered in
Dubai. WOTME’s financial statements are consolidated into the financial statements of
Weatherford.

9. Weatherford Services, Limited (“WSL”) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Weatherford that is incorporated in Bermuda, with a business support branch in
Aberdeen, Scotland. WSL is the primary Weatherford entity that operates in Angola and
Congo. WSL’s financial statements are consolidated into the financial statements of
Weatherford.

10. Weatherford Mediterranean S.p.A. (“WEMESPA”) is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Weatherford based in Ortona, Italy. WEMESPA’s financial statements are

consolidated into the financial statements of Weatherford.

FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS
A. Bribery Schemes in West Africa

1. Angola Cabinda Contract

11s In 2006 and 2007, WSL, a Weatherford subsidiary, retained a Swiss
freight-forwarding and logistics services company (the “Swiss Agent”) to pay bribes to
an Angolan official so that he would approve the renewal of a lucrative oil services
contract in the Cabinda region of Angola (the “Cabinda contract”). WSL initially had
provided services to a non-governmental oil company pursuant to a five-year contract

awarded in 1998, and the parties had extended the contract in yearly increments between
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 5 of 25

2003 and 2005, with the final one expiring October 31, 2006. Sonangol, the Angolan
state-owned oil company, must approve the award of oil services contracts in Angola,
even with private companies, and a Sonangol Drilling Manager was responsible for
approving the contract award.

12. In late 2005, the Cabinda project was put out for public bid. During the
bid process, the Sonangol Drilling Manager demanded a bribe from a Weatherford area
manager. The area manager refused to pay the bribe and reported in his 2006 ethics
questionnaire response that Weatherford personnel were making payments to government
officials in Angola and elsewhere. Weatherford did not investigate these allegations.

13. In late 2005 or early 2006, the Sonangol Drilling Manager met with a
WSL regional manager and another WSL employee and repeated his demand for a bribe
payment. The employees agreed to pay the Sonangol Drilling Manager $250,000 in
installments in exchange for his approval of the Cabinda contract, as well as additional
payments in order to maintain a good general relationship with Sonangol.

14. | WSL entered into a consultancy agreement with the Swiss Agent. The
original draft of the consultancy agreement used by Weatherford’s legal department
included an FCPA clause prohibiting the Swiss Agent from giving anything of value,
directly or indirectly, to an official or employee of any government. The Swiss Agent
rejected the clause in an email stating that “in view of the nature of the business I cannot
accept the original wording.” Despite this red flag, no steps were taken to ensure that the
agent was not paying bribes to foreign officials. Instead, Weatherford’s legal department
in Houston permitted WSL to enter into the consulting agreement without the FCPA

clause, and with an alternate clause simply requiring the agent to “comply with all
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 6 of 25

applicable laws, rules and regulations issued by any governmental entity in the countries
of business...”

15. | WSL produced sham work orders for consulting services that the Swiss
Agent never performed, and the Swiss Agent, in turn, generated sham invoices for those
same nonexistent services. On some occasions, WSL paid the Swiss Agent before an
invoice was received, or backdated documents. Other times, WSL paid the Swiss
Agent’s invoices that were above the grant of authority level of WSL management. The
Swiss Agent passed those monies on, less a commission, either in cash via WSL
employees, or by wire transfer to the Sonangol Drilling Manager. Moreover, in some
instances, Weatherford paid the Sonangol Drilling Manager’s travel expenses, including a
week-long February 2008 trip to Italy and Portugal that included only one day of
business-related training.

16. | WSL mischaracterized the payments to the Swiss Agent as legitimate
consulting expenses on its books and records. The Sonangol Drilling Manager approved
the award to WSL of the Cabinda contract and it was awarded to WSL in February 2007.
Weatherford earned $11,741,909 in profits from increased pricing obtained from the
Cabinda contract.

2. Angola Joint Venture

17. WSL also engaged in a second bribery scheme in Angola. In June 2004,
Sonangol officials informed Weatherford that it could obtain one hundred percent of the
Angolan well screens market if it created a joint venture with companies they selected
and established a wells screens manufacturing operation in Angola. In 2005, a

Weatherford subsidiary entered into a joint venture in Angola with two local entities
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 7 of 25

selected by the Sonangol officials, one of which was controlled by the Sonangol officials
(“Angolan Company A”) and one of which was controlled by the relative of an Angolan
Minister (“Angolan Company B”).

18. Angolan Company A’s named principals included the wife of one of the
Sonangol officials and relatives of other Angolan officials. Angolan Company B’s
principals included the relative of an Angolan Minister, the relative’s spouse, and another
Angolan official. The Weatherford subsidiary owned 45% percent of the joint venture,
and Angolan Company A and Angolan Company B owned 45% and 10% respectively.
Neither Angolan Company A nor Angolan Company B provided any personnel, expertise
or capital to the joint venture.

19, In October 2004, the Weatherford executive who was leading the joint
venture effort for Weatherford advised internal counsel in Houston that, “[t]here will be
two parties involved [in the joint venture], Sonangol through an entity named [Angolan
Company A] and a private individual (the [relative of an Angolan Minister]}) through an
entity named [Angolan Company B].” Internal counsel replied, “I am going to have to
get scrutiny with our D.C. trade lawyers since an individual related to the govt entity is
involved...” The Weatherford executive commented, “I hope you are just being cautious
and this isn’t a deal killer.”

20. In October 2004, the Sonangol officials traveled to Houston to discuss the
joint venture and sign a letter of intent between “Sonangol and or the designees” and
Weatherford. The letter of intent provided that Sonangol would negotiate exclusively

with the joint venture for well screens.
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 8 of 25

21. On July 8, 2005, the Weatherford executive and internal counsel met with
two of the Sonangol officials in London to negotiate the final terms of the joint venture.
Afterwards, internal counsel sent an email to a more senior internal counsel, advising that
the successful formation of the joint venture “will lock up 100% of screen business in
Angola.” Internal counsel also wrote that outside counsel needed to conduct additional
due diligence, noting that two of the persons negotiating on behalf of Angolan Company
A were Sonangol employees and that one of their wives was an owner of Angolan
Company A. The joint venture agreement was signed in September 2005 without
completing the due diligence.

22. The Sonangol officials controlled Angolan Company A and took all
actions on behalf of the entity, including negotiating the joint venture agreement,
attending meetings, providing bank account information, and approving the dividends to
be paid. The relative of the Angolan Minister represented Angolan Company B’s interest
by attending meetings and negotiating the dividend payments. In April 2006, when a
more senior Weatherford executive asked the Weatherford executive to summarize the
ownership interests in the joint venture, the Weatherford executive replied, “[p]lanned is
45% WFT, 45% [Angolan Company A] (ties back to Sonangol) and [Angolan Company
B] (ties back to ... minister).”

23. Weatherford obtained competitors’ bid information and its use of the joint
venture guaranteed the award of contracts, which had to be approved by Sonangol. In
2006, after Weatherford learned that a contract had been awarded to a competitor, a

regional manager asked one of the Sonangol officials to intervene. The contract was
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 9 of 25

taken away from the competitor and given to Weatherford. This is memorialized in a
2006 email where one of the Weatherford attendees wrote internal counsel that:

I sat in a meeting this morning with ourselves, [the competitor], and [the

counterparty to the contract] as they told [the competitor] they were cancelling the

$7M Block 4 contract they had received and awarding it to us. I then told [the
counterparty] that we would need another 10-15% to cover our local activities and
they didn’t flinch. Every now and then, life gets good.

24. In March 2008, Angolan Company A and Angolan Company B were paid
dividends for 2005 and 2006, and the joint venture paid each partner’s required
withholding taxes. Angolan Company A received $689,995 and Angolan Company B
received $136,901. Weatherford received $2,036,263 in joint venture profits and $3,484

in profits from the Block 4 contract that was taken from a competitor.

3. Congo
25. In addition to bribery schemes involving Angolan government officials,

WSL made over $500,000 in commercial bribe payments through the Swiss Agent to
employees of a commercial customer, a wholly-owned subsidiary of an Italian energy
company, between March 2002 and December 2008.

26. In 2002, WSL retained the Swiss Agent as its agent to make payments to
employees of the commercial customer in order to obtain and retain business. The Swiss
Agent’s role in the scheme included submitting false invoices and sending payments to
individuals as directed by WSL employees and others. WSL employees created and sent
false work orders to the Swiss Agent. The Swiss Agent, WSL employees and others
knew the services would not be performed and that the work orders were a pretext to

funnel money to the Swiss Agent. The Swiss Agent forwarded the money, less a
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 10 of 25

commission, to the bank accounts of individuals designated by the WSL employees and
others at Weatherford subsidiaries.

27. | WSL mischaracterized the bribe payments as legitimate expenses on its
books and records. Bank account records and a U.S. brokerage account statement show
that among the recipients were two employees of the commercial customer who were
responsible for awarding contracts to WSL. Weatherford obtained profits of $1,304,912
from commercial business in Congo relating to payments made by Swiss Agent.

B. Improper Payments Authorized in the Middle East

 

28. Between 2005 and 2011, another Weatherford subsidiary, WOTME,
awarded improper “volume discounts” to a company that served as an agent, distributor
and reseller in the Middle East who supplied Weatherford products to a state-owned and
controlled national oil company, believing that those discounts were being used to create
a slush fund with which to make bribe payments to decision makers at the national oil
company. Weatherford used WOTME, a wholly-owned subsidiary, as the vehicle to sell
its goods and services to the national oil company.

29. Ata meeting in 2001, officials at the national oil company directed
WOTME to sell goods to the company through a particular distributor. Prior to entering
into the contract with the distibutors neither WOTME nor Weatherford conducted any
due diligence on the distributor, despite: (a) the fact that the distributor would be
furnishing Weatherford goods directly to an instrumentality of a foreign government; (b)
the fact that a foreign official had specifically directed WOTME to contract with that
particular distributor; and (c) the fact that executives at WOTME knew that a member of

the country’s royal family had an ownership interest in the distributor. In late 2001,
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 11 of 25

WOTME entered into a representation agreement with the distributor to sell
Weatherford’s Completion and Production Systems products to the national oil company.
New agreements, covering additional product lines, were entered into in 2006 and 2009.
When the agreement was renewed in 2009, Weatherford became the direct counterparty
to the agreement.

30. Between 2001 and 2005, Weatherford completed few sales to the national
oil company via the distributor. Beginning in 2005, certain employees of WOTME and
other Weatherford subsidiaries, including regional and product line managers, allowed
the distributor to create a slush fund by providing the distributor with unauthorized
volume discounts and pricing discounts, in addition to the agent’s 5% commission. The
WOTME employees intended that the slush fund would be used for payments to national
oil company officials. The “volume discounts” to the distributor were typically between
5-10% of the contact price. The discounts allowed the distributor to accumulate funds
that the employees of WOTME and other subsidiaries believed would be used to pay
bribes to national oil company officials.

31. The volume discounts were not an official contractual item included in
any contract between WOTME and the distributor. WOTME recorded the volume
discounts in a contra revenue account on its general ledger entitled “Volume Discount
Account.” The representation agreements with, and volume discounts for, the distributor
were approved by employees within Weatherford. Weatherford did not perform any due
diligence on the distributor, even after the parent company became the counterparty to the
agreement. No efforts were made to obtain proof that the discounts were provided to the

end user or to otherwise ensure that the payments were not used for illicit purposes.
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 12 of 25

During this time period, the sales of Weatherford’s expandable sand screen products to
the national oil company significantly increased.

32. | Contemporaneous emails make it clear that employees of WOTME and
other subsidiaries intended, and believed, that the volume discounts were being used to
influence national oil company officials. For example, in September 2006, a manager
employed by a Weatherford U.K. subsidiary proposed to the distributor that they reduce
the volume discounts by “half the total that they and their allies were initially wanting.”
In response to this suggestion, the distributor replied: “Yes, I agree that we should not
risk our relationship with [national oil company]. However, your suggestion would do
exactly that; it is not purchasing but our friends who will be directly impacted. They and
not purchasing, are in a position to influence the agreement and control the generation,
direction and volume of business we and others receive, and as such the volume discount
may not be subject to negotiations.”

33; In March 2007, Weatherford equipment undergoing a trial test at the
national oil company failed. At the time, there was concern that the equipment failure
would lead to the cancellation of a pending order by the national oil company. A
WOTME manager wrote to another company employee, “I think we need to discuss with
[distributor] and see if [its] team of influential [national oil company employees] can
assist here, I’m sure they are keen not to loose [sic] their cut of the ‘volume
discount?!!!!.”

34. | Weatherford did not permit WOTME or its other subsidiaries to enter into
transactions above set dollar amounts. When the dollar amounts of certain sales

transactions involving the distributor exceeded those set limits, the purchase orders

12
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 13 of 25

showing the volume discount as a line item were approved in the U.S. by Weatherford.
Weatherford employees approved the purchase orders despite the fact that the volume
discounts were not authorized by the representation agreement. Intercompany pricing for
products for sale to the national oil company were also approved by Weatherford
personnel in the U.S and on a number of occasions, an executive of the distributor
traveled to Houston to discuss and assist Weatherford with its business in the Middle
East.

$5. Weatherford granted the distributor in excess of $11.8 million in volume
discounts intended to influence national oil company officials to obtain and retain sales
contracts. Weatherford obtained sales seven of nearly $122 million, and $37.14

million in profits in connection with transactions involving the use of volume discounts.

Gc Improper Travel and Entertainment in Algeria

36. Weatherford also provided improper travel and entertainment to officials
of Sonatrach, an Algerian state-owned company, that were not justified by a legitimate
business purpose.

The improper travel and entertainment to Sonatrach officials include:

. June 2006 trip by two Sonatrach officials to the FIFA World Cup soccer
tournament in Hanover, Germany;

. July 2006 honeymoon trip of the daughter of a Sonatrach official; and

. October 2005 trip by a Sonatrach employee and his family to Jeddah,
Saudi Arabia, for religious reasons that were improperly booked as a
donation.

37. In addition, on at least two other occasions, Weatherford provided
Sonatrach officials with cash sums while they were visiting Houston. For example, in
May 2007, Weatherford paid for four Sonatrach officials, including a tender committee

official, to attend a conference in Houston. Prior to the trip, a Weatherford finance

13
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 14 of 25

executive sent an email to a Weatherford officer requesting $10,000 cash to be advanced
to a WOTME employee without providing any explanation for the cash advance. The
request was approved and a portion of the funds was provided to the tender committee
official. There is no evidence the cash was used for legitimate business or promotional
expenses. In connection with a December 2007 trip by three Sonatrach officials traveling
to Houston, a Weatherford finance employee questioned the propriety of a WOTME
employee’s request for a $14,000 cash advance in connection with the trip. The finance
employee sent an email stating “... I don’t like the looks of this request.... [The WOTME
employee] will be arriving in Houston this Sunday. ... he is being accompanied by three
senior management members of Sonatrach Algeria. And they want cash....” The finance
employee’s concern was disregarded and the request was ultimately approved at high
levels within Weatherford and a portion of the funds was provided to the officials.

38. In total, Weatherford spent $35,260 on improper travel, entertainment and
gifts for Algerian officials from May 2005 through November 2008 that were recorded in
the company’s books and records as legitimate expenses.

D. Improper Payments to Albanian Tax Authorities

39. From 2001 to 2006, the general manager and financial manager at a
Weatherford Italian subsidiary, WEMESPA, misappropriated over $200,000 of company
funds, a portion of which was improperly paid to Albanian tax auditors. WEMESPA’s
general manager and financial manager misappropriated the funds by taking advantage of
Weatherford’s inadequate system of internal accounting controls. They misreported cash
advances, diverted payments on previously paid invoices, misappropriated government

rebate checks and received reimbursement of expenses that did not relate to business
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 15 of 25

activities, such as golf equipment and perfume. The lack of sufficient internal accounting
controls created a risk of improper payments, embezzlement and other unauthorized
access to corporate assets.

40. In July 2006, a co-worker confronted the general manager and financial
manager regarding the misappropriation of government rebate checks payable to
WEMESPA and threatened to expose the misconduct. In January 2007, the general
manager terminated the co-worker’s employment. On the date he was terminated and
again a few weeks later, the co-worker reported the misappropriation of company funds
to the Audit Committee by email, which led to an internal investigation. The general
manager and financial manager returned more than half of the stolen funds to the
company.

41, A memo drafted by the general manager and financial manager in the
months after their co-worker confronted them discussed the misappropriated funds and
indicated that funds were paid to tax auditors in Albania and others for the benefit of
WEMESPA. The general manager, financial manager and the Albania Country Manager
made $41,000 in payments to Albanian tax auditors who questioned details of the
company’s accounts and demanded payment to close out the audit or speed up the
certification process in 2001, 2002 and 2004.

42. In addition to the cash payments, in 2005, after a regime shift in Albania,
the Country Manager provided three laptop computers for the tax director and two
members of Albania’s National Petroleum Agency, which the WEMESPA executives

approved and misrecorded in the books and records.

15
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 16 of 25

E. Kickbacks to Obtain Oil for Food Contracts in Iraq
43. The Oil for Food Program (“OFFP”) provided humanitarian relief for the

Iraqi population due to international trade sanctions. The OFFP permitted the Iraqi
government to sell crude oil and use the proceeds to purchase humanitarian goods. The
proceeds of the oil sales were transferred to an escrow account in New York by the
United Nations 661 Committee to allow for the purchase of humanitarian supplies,
subject to U.N. approval. The intent of this structure was to prevent the supply of cash to
Saddam Hussein. By mid-2000, however, Iraqi ministries had circumvented the
sanctions by requiring suppliers of humanitarian goods to pay a ten percent kickback on
each contract. This kickback was referred to as an “after-sales service” fee (*ASSF”);
however, no services were provided.

44. WOTME sold oil equipment through the OFFP to Iraqi ministries. By
mid-2001, WOTME’s Country Manager in Iraq learned of the ASSF requirement, agreed
to pay kickbacks, and signed at least two side letters to that effect. In order to generate
funds to pay the ASSFs and to conceal those payments, WOTME inflated the price of the
contracts by ten percent before submitting them to the UN for approval. Correspondence
between WOTME and the Iraqi ministries confirms that the Iraqis assessed the ASSF,
which WOTME paid. The ASSF payments were incorrectly recorded as cost of goods
sold on the company’s books and records.

45. Between February and July 2002, WOTME paid more than $1.4 million in
improper payments on nine contracts. Iraqi ministries also demanded improper “inland
transportation fees” in an effort to subvert the UN program. WOTME acquiesced to the

Iraqi demands and paid inland transportation fees totaling more than $115,000. Some of

16
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 17 of 25

the invoices paid by WOTME included charges for transportation on items that did not
require inland delivery, charges for delivery to multiple locations when delivery to only
one location was required or references to a port services company that was a front for
the Iraqi government. Weatherford obtained $7,032,376 in profits from this conduct.

F. Weatherford Conceals its Business With Sanctioned Countries in its Books
and Records

46. From at least 2002 to 2007, Weatherford and its subsidiaries employed
various schemes to conceal transactions with Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan (“sanctioned
countries”) that violated U.S. sanctions and export control laws. Generally, these laws
prohibit business transactions with sanctioned countries that involve U.S. persons,
companies or goods. Employees of Weatherford and its subsidiaries falsified books and
records to hide sanctioned countries transactions, and Weatherford failed to have
adequate internal accounting controls to prevent or detect the conduct. Weatherford
obtained over $118 million in revenues and $31,646,907 in profits from its business in
sanctioned countries.

47. For example, from 2003 to 2006, WOTME sold products to an Iranian
state-owned entity. Certain Weatherford employees involved in the sales to Iran,
including the contract negotiations, equipment procurement, financing arrangements and
supervision of employees working on the project concealed the transactions in
Weatherford’s internal emails and correspondence, and books and records by using code
names for Iran such as “Dubai across the water” and placing key transaction documents
in mislabeled binders. One employee failed to disclose the improper transactions on

Weatherford’s annual ethics questionnaires.
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 18 of 25

48. In another example, Weatherford maintained a centralized inventory
accounting system in the United States to track procurement and inventory of U.S. goods.
In 2004, employees at WOTME implemented a scheme to fulfill orders destined for
sanctioned countries. The employees created a special prefix in the system to allow them
to procure and track equipment from the United States for Iran, Syria and Sudan while
concealing that the orders were destined for those countries and to conceal that requests
for design work from U.S. engineering personnel were for those countries. The
employees also removed U.S.-origin inventory labels from products and replaced them
with labels that misstated the country of origin. The employees used code words in
internal communications, invoices and journal entries to conceal the true destination of
the products.

49. From 2005 to 2008, employees at a Weatherford Canadian subsidiary
managing business that another Weatherford subsidiary had acquired created false
shipping documents and used code words to make it appear that products were being
shipped to “Barcelona, Venezuela” rather than Cuba. They also created a false shipping
destination called Barcelona, Venezuela in Weatherford’s computer inventory and
accounting system. As a result, the Cuba transactions were masked on Weatherford’s
shipping documents, asset tracking system, invoices, and journal entries as Barcelona,
Venezuela transactions.

50. Weatherford also removed serial numbers from products to conceal the
destination of its U.S. goods. Further, U.S. executives of Weatherford participated in the
acquisition of two foreign companies that did business in Iran while attempting to mask

their involvement through the use of code names for Iran. Weatherford also took steps to
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 19 of 25

conceal in its transaction records the role of U.S. persons in obtaining business in
sanctioned countries.

Sh. During the relevant period, Weatherford did not have adequate internal
accounting controls over transactions in sanctioned countries. The company lacked
adequate export control training programs. The legal department, in conjunction with the
internal audit group, conducted an annual “Bthies Questionnaire” in an effort to capture
ethics and compliance violations. However, there is no evidence that the company had a
protocol in place for performing further investigation into allegations of unethical or
corrupt conduct included in the Ethics Questionnaire responses. Further, in 2005, when
Weatherford responded to comment letters from the SEC’s Division of Corporation
Finance regarding the company’s Form 10-K for the year 2003, Weatherford asserted that
it was in full compliance with and had established corporate policies on U.S. economic
sanctions and export control laws.

G. Misconduct During the Investigation and Subsequent Remediation Efforts

52. Certain conduct by Weatherford and its employees during the course of
the Commission staff's investigation compromised the investigation. These activities
involved the failure to provide the staff with complete and accurate information, resulting
in significant delay. In one instance, the staff sought information concerning the Iraq
Country Manager who signed letters agreeing to pay bribes to Iraqi officials during the
Oil for Food Program. The staff was informed that the Country Manager was missing or
dead when, in fact, he remained employed by Weatherford. In at least two instances,

email was deleted by employees prior to the imaging of their computers. On another

19
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 20 of 25

occasion, Weatherford failed to secure important computers and documents and allowed
potentially complicit employees to collect documents subpoenaed by the staff.

53. Subsequent to the misconduct, Weatherford greatly improved its
cooperation and engaged in remediation efforts, including disciplining employees
responsible for the misconduct, establishing a high level Compliance Officer position,
significantly increasing the size of its compliance department, and conducting numerous
anti-corruption reviews in many of the countries in which it operates.

H. Anti-Bribery Violations

54. | Weatherford’s conduct in the Middle East and Angola violated Section
30A of the Exchange Act. From 2005 through 2011, Weatherford authorized $11.8
million in payments to national oil company officials through a distributor intended to
wrongfully influence national oil company decision makers to obtain and retain business.
Weatherford also violated Section 30A when it retained the Swiss Agent to funnel bribes
to a Sonangol official to obtain the Cabinda contract. Weatherford similarly violated
Section 30A by bribing other Sonangol officials via the joint venture in return for
contracts and preferential treatment. Employees of state-owned and controlled oil
companies are “foreign officials” as the term is defined in the FCPA, 15 U.S.C. §78dd-
1(£)(1)(A). Operationally, Weatherford’s subsidiaries and their employees and third
parties acted as agents of Weatherford in connection to the conduct described above, and
certain Weatherford employees and employees of its subsidiaries were directly involved
in or consciously disregarded the high probability that the distributor might misuse the

payments to improperly influence foreign officials. Weatherford, its employees, and its

20
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 21 of 25

agents made use of the mails or other means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce
corruptly in furtherance of the bribery schemes in the Middle East and Angola.
L Failure to Maintain Books and Records

55. Weatherford, directly and through its subsidiaries, also violated Exchange
Act Section 13(b)(2)(A) when it made numerous payments and engaged in many
transactions that were incorrectly described in the company’s books and records. In the
Middle East, for example, the money given to a distributor to be used as bribes was
reflected in Weatherford’s books and records as legitimate volume discounts. In
Angola and Congo, payments to foreign officials and others were described as
legitimate consulting fees rather than bribe payments. Payments to Sonangol executives
through the joint venture were misrecorded as legitimate dividend payments.

56. Weatherford employees created false accounting and inventory records in
an effort to hide illegal sales to Cuba, Syria, Sudan and Iran. The financial statements
of the subsidiaries involved in the conduct and their books and records were
consolidated into the financial statements of the parent company issuer.

J. Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

57. Weatherford violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act by failing
to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. The
violations were widespread and involved conduct at Weatherford’s headquarters as well
as at numerous subsidiaries. Executives, managers and employees throughout the
organization were aware of the conduct, which lasted a decade. Weatherford paid
millions of dollars to consultants, agents and joint venture partners without adequate due

diligence. Weatherford approved cash payments to Algerian officials traveling to

21
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 22 of 25

Houston without any justification for the payments. Employees made payments to agents
without regard to grants of authority and, on some occasions, without even receiving an
invoice. In Italy, internal accounting controls were ineffective, allowing executives to
embezzle and pay bribes for years.

58. In the Middle East, the company failed on several occasions to perform
due diligence on the distributor it used, despite the fact that the agent was imposed upon
them by a national oil company official and would be selling to a government entity. The
use of large volume discounts was not routinely reviewed. For years, Weatherford failed
to have any internal controls over their accounting of transactions in sanctioned countries,
and invoices, purchase orders, shipping documents and inventory records were falsified
to conceal the conduct. Weatherford also failed to provide FCPA or export compliance
training. While Weatherford did require certain employees to complete a yearly ethics
questionnaire seeking instances of alleged misconduct, Weatherford failed to investigate

or even review the responses.

CLAIMS FOR RELIEF
FIRST CLAIM
[Violations of Section 30A of the Exchange Act]

59. Paragraphs | through 58 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

60. As described above, Weatherford, through its officers, employees, and
agents, corruptly offered, promised to pay, or authorized payments to one or more
persons, while knowing that all or a portion of those payments would be offered, given,
or promised, directly or indirectly, to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing their

acts or decisions in their official capacity, inducing them to do or omit to do actions in

22
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 23 of 25

violation of their official duties, securing an improper advantage, or inducing such
foreign officials to use their influence with foreign governments or instrumentalities
thereof to assist Weatherford in obtaining or retaining business.

61. By reason of the foregoing, Weatherford violated, and unless enjoined will

continue to violate, Section 30A of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-1]

SECOND CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act]

62. Paragraphs | through 61 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.

63. As described above, Weatherford, through its officers, employees, and
agents, failed to keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflected its transactions and dispositions of its assets.

64. By reason of the foregoing, Weatherford violated, and unless enjoined will
continue to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C.

§ 78m(b)(2)(A)].

THIRD CLAIM
[Violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act]
65. Paragraphs | through 64 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference.
66. As described above, Weatherford failed to devise and maintain a system of
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that:
(i) transactions were executed in accordance with management’s general or specific
authorization; and (ii) transactions were recorded as necessary (I) to permit preparation of

financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or any

23
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 24 of 25

other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II) to maintain accountability for its
assets.

67. _ By reason of the foregoing, Weatherford violated, and unless enjoined will
continue to violate, Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. [15 U.S.C.

§ 78m(b)(2)(B)]-

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final
judgment:

A. Permanently restraining and enjoining Weatherford from violating
Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1,
78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)];

B, Ordering Weatherford to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as
a result of its illegal conduct, along with prejudgment interest;

GC. Ordering Weatherford to pay a civil monetary penalty; and

24
Case 4:13-cv-03500 Document1 Filed in TXSD on 11/26/13 Page 25 of 25

D.

Dated: November 26, 2013

OF COUNSEL:

Robert I. Dodge

DC Bar No. 418914
Tracy L. Price

MD Bar No. 96121
Kelly G. Kilroy

MD Bar No. 26276
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, NE
Washington, DC 20549
(202) 551-4421 (Dodge)
DodgeR@sec.gov

Granting such further relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.

Respectfully submitted,

J UN D. fea

Attorney-in-Charge

S.D. Tex. Bar No. 37943

Texas Bar No. 00796242

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Burnett Plaza, Suite 1900

801 Cherry Street, Unit #18
Fort Worth, Texas 76102-6882
(817) 978-6442

(817) 978-4927 (fax)
BrandtJ@sec.gov

COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFF

25
