 

Case Po Ta-cr-20276-FAM Bocurent9 Entered on FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page i of 11

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

CASE NO. 18-20276-CR-MORENO

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
V.
EGBERT YVAN F. KOOLMAN,

Defendant.

PLEA AGREEMENT

The United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and the United
States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida (collectively, the “Government”) and
EGBERT YVAN FERDINAND KOOLMAN (hereinafter referred to as the “defendant”) enter
into the following agreement:

l. The defendant understands that he has the right to have the evidence and charges
against him presented to a federal grand jury for determination of whether there is probable
cause to believe he committed the offense for which he is charged. Understanding that right,
and after full and complete consultation with his counsel, the defendant agrees to waive in open
court his right to prosecution by indictment and agrees that the Government may proceed by way
of an information filed pursuant to Rule 7 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.

2. The defendant agrees to plead guilty to a single-count information, which charges
the defendant with conspiracy to commit money laundering, in violation of Title 18, United
States Code, Section 1956(h).

3. The defendant is aware that the sentence will be imposed by the Court after
considering the advisory Federal Sentencing Guidelines and Policy Statements (hereinafter

“Sentencing Guidelines”). The defendant acknowledges and understands that the Court will

 
Case PTa-cr-20276-FAM Bocurment9 Entered on FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page 2 of 11

compute an advisory sentence under the Sentencing Guidelines and that the applicable guidelines

 

will be determined by the Court relying in part on the results of a pre-sentence investigation by
the Court’s probation office, which investigation will commence after the guilty plea has been
entered. The defendant is also aware that, under certain circumstances, the Court may depart
from the advisory Sentencing Guidelines range that it has computed, and may raise or lower that
advisory sentence under the Sentencing Guidelines. The defendant is further aware and
understands that the Court is required to consider the advisory guideline range determined under
the Sentencing Guidelines, but is not bound to impose a sentence within that advisory range; the
Court is permitted to tailor the ultimate sentence in light of other statutory concerns, and such
sentence may be either more severe or less severe than the Sentencing Guidelines’ advisory
range. Knowing these facts, the defendant understands and acknowledges that the Court has the
authority to impose any sentence within and up to the statutory maximum authorized by law for
the offense identified in paragraph 2 and that the defendant may not withdraw the plea solely as a
result of the sentence imposed.

4. The defendant also understands and acknowledges that the Court may impose a
statutory maximum term of imprisonment of up to 20 years, followed by a term of supervised
release of up to three years. In addition to a term of imprisonment and supervised release, the
Court may impose a fine of up to $500,000 or not more than twice the value of the property
involved in the offense set forth in paragraph 2 above, and the Court may also order forfeiture
and restitution.

5. The defendant further understands and acknowledges that, in addition to any

sentence imposed under paragraph 4 of this agreement, a special assessment in the amount of

 
Case D8-cr-20276-FAM Bocument9 Entered on FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page 3 of 11

CAD

$100 will be imposed on the defendant. The defendant agrees that any special assessment

 

imposed shall be paid at the time of sentencing. If the defendant is financially unable to pay the
special assessment, the defendant agrees to present evidence to the Government and the Court at
the time of sentencing as to the reasons for the defendant’s failure to pay.

6. The Government reserves the right to inform the Court and the probation office of
all facts pertinent to the sentencing process, including all relevant information concerning the
offenses committed, whether charged or not, as well as concerning the defendant and the
defendant’s background. Subject only to the express terms of any agreed-upon sentencing
recommendations contained in this agreement, the Government further reserves the right to make |
any recommendation as to the quality and quantity of punishment.

7. The Government agrees that it will recommend at sentencing that the Court
reduce by two levels the Sentencing Guidelines level applicable to the defendant’s offense,
pursuant to Section 3E1.1(a) of the Sentencing Guidelines, based upon the defendants
recognition and affirmative and timely acceptance of personal responsibility. If, at the time of
sentencing the defendant’s offense level is determined to be 16 or greater, the Government will
file a motion requesting an additional one level decrease pursuant to Section 3E1.1(b) of the
Sentencing Guidelines, stating that the defendant has assisted authorities in the investigation or
prosecution of the defendant’s own misconduct by timely notifying authorities of the defendant’s
intention to enter a plea of guilty, thereby permitting the Government to avoid preparing for trial
and permitting the government and the Court to allocate their resources efficiently. The
Government, however, will not be required to make this motion and this recommendation if the

defendant: (a) fails or refuses to make a full, accurate and complete disclosure to the probation

 

 

 

 
@ d:]8-cr-20276-F AM Document Entered on FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page 4 of 14

office of the circumstances surrounding the relevant offense conduct; (b) is found to have
misrepresented facts to the Government prior to entering into this plea agreement; or (c) commits
any misconduct after entering into this plea agreement, including, but not limited to, committing
a state or federal offense, violating any term of release, or making false statements or
misrepresentations to any governmental entity or official.

8. The defendant agrees that he shall cooperate fully with the Government by: (a)
providing truthful and complete information and testimony, and producing documents, records
and other evidence, when called upon by the Government, whether in interviews, before a grand
Jury, or at any trial or other Court proceeding; (b) appearing at such grand jury proceedings,
hearings, trials, and other judicial proceedings, and at meetings, as may be required by the
Government; and (c) if requested by the Government, working in an undercover role under the
supervision of, and in compliance with, law enforcement officers and agents. In addition, the
defendant agrees that he will not protect any person or entity through false information or
omission, that he will not falsely implicate any person or entity, and that he that he will not
commit any further crimes.

9. The Government reserves the right to evaluate the nature and extent of the
defendant’s cooperation and to make that cooperation, or lack thereof, known to the Court at the
time of sentencing. If in the sole and unreviewable judgment of the Government, the
defendant’s cooperation is of such quality and significance to the investigation or prosecution of
other criminal matters as to warrant the Court’s downward departure from the advisory
sentencing range calculated under the Sentencing Guidelines and/or any applicable minimum

mandatory sentence, the Government may make a motion prior to sentencing pursuant to Section

 
Case Pc Ta-cr-20276-FAM Bocurment9 Entered on FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page 5 of 11

5K1.1 of the Sentencing Guidelines and/or Title 18, United States Code, Section 3553(e), or
subsequent to sentencing pursuant to Rule 35 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
informing the Court that the defendant has provided substantial assistance and recommending
that the defendant’s sentence be reduced. The defendant understands and agrees, however, that
nothing in this agreement requires the Government to file any such motions, and that the
Government’s assessment of the quality and significance of the defendant’s cooperation shall be
binding as it relates to the appropriateness of the Government’s filing or non-filing of a motion to
reduce sentence.

10. The defendant understands and acknowledges that the Court is under no
obligation to grant a motion for reduction of sentence filed by the Government. In addition, the
defendant further understands and acknowledges that the Court is under no obligation of any
type to reduce the defendant’s sentence because of the defendant’s cooperation.

11. The Government and the defendant agree that, although not binding on the
probation office or the Court, they will jointly recommend that the Court make the following
findings and conclusions as to the sentence to be imposed:

a. Base Offense Level: The relevant base offense level under Sections
2S1.1(a)(2) and 2B1.1(b)(1) of the Sentencing Guidelines is 20.

b. Specific Offense Characteristics: The defendant should receive a two-level
increase under Section 2S 1.1(b)(2)(B) of the Sentencing Guidelines because the
offense involved violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956.

c. Aggravating Role: The defendant should receive a four-level increase under

Section 3B1.1 because the defendant was an organizer or leader of a criminal

 
Case Po Ta-cr-20276-FAM Bocurment9 Entered on FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page 6 of 11

activity that involved five or more participants or was otherwise extensive.

d. Abuse of Position of Trust: The defendant should receive a two-level increase
under Section 3B1.3 because the defendant abused a position of public or
private trust in a manner that significantly facilitated the commission or
concealment of the offense.

e. Adjusted Offense Level: The applicable adjusted offense level under all of the
circumstances of the offense committed by the defendant is 28.

12. The defendant agrees to forfeit to the United States voluntarily and immediately
all property, real or personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to the
violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956(h) charged in the Information. The
defendant agrees to consent to the entry of orders of forfeiture for such property and for a money
judgment equal in value to the total amount of proceeds traceable to his offense of conviction.
The defendant admits and agrees that the conduct described in the Information and Factual
Proffer provides a sufficient factual and statutory basis for the forfeiture of the property sought
by the government.

13. | The defendant agrees to waive any appeal of the forfeiture. The defendant
waives the requirements of Rules 32.2 and 43(a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
regarding notice of the forfeiture in the Indictment or Information, announcement of the
forfeiture at sentencing, and incorporation of the forfeiture in the judgment. The defendant also
waives any failure by the Court to advise the defendant of any applicable forfeiture at the time
the guilty plea is accepted as required by Rule 11(b)(1)(J) of the Federal Rules of Criminal

Procedure. The defendant further agrees to waive any applicable time limits for the initiation of

 
ase T:T8-cr-20276-FAM DBocurnent9 Entered an FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page 7 of I

administrative or judicial forfeiture proceeding and/or further notification of any such forfeiture
brought against the property sought for forfeiture.

14, The defendant also agrees to assist the Government in all proceedings,
administrative or judicial, involving forfeiture to the United States of any property, including
substitute property, regardless of its nature or form, real or personal, which the defendant or
others known to the defendant, have accumulated as a result of illegal activities. The defendant
agrees that the United States shall, at its option, be entitled to forfeiture of any property
(substitute assets) of the defendant to satisfy the money judgment. The defendant further agrees
to take all steps necessary to locate property that could be used to satisfy the forfeiture money
judgment and to pass title to the United States before the defendant’s sentencing. To that end,
defendant agrees to fully assist the government in the recovery and return to the United States of
any assets, or portions thereof, wherever located. The assistance shall include: identification of
any property subject to forfeiture, agreement to the entry of an order enjoining the transfer or
encumbrance of such property, and the transfer of such property to the United States by delivery
to the Government, upon the Government’s request, any necessary and appropriate
documentation, including consents to forfeiture and quit claim deeds, to deliver good and
marketable title to such property. The defendant knowingly and voluntarily agrees to waive any
claim or defense the defendant may have under the Eighth Amendment to the United States
Constitution, including any claim of excessive fine or penalty with respect to the forfeited assets.

15. The defendant further understands that forfeiture is independent of any
assessments, fines, costs, restitution, or any other penalty that may be imposed by the Court.

The defendant knowingly and voluntarily waives any claim or defense he may have under the

 
Case Pc Ta-cr-20276-FAM Bocurent 9 Entered on FLSD Docket 04/13/2018 Page 8 of 11

Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution, including any claim of excessive fine or
penalty with respect to the forfeited property.

16. | The defendant agrees to make full and accurate disclosure of his financial affairs
to the Government, and expressly authorizes the Government to obtain a credit report. The
defendant agrees that within 10 calendar days and upon request of the Government, the
defendant shall submit a completed Financial Disclosure Statement (form provided by the United
States), and shall fully disclose and identify all assets in which he has any interest and/or over
which the defendant exercises control, directly or indirectly, including those held by a spouse,
nominee, or other third party.

17. The defendant agrees that restitution is mandatory pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
§3663A(c)(1)(A)(ii). The defendant agrees to the entry of a restitution order for the full amount
of victim losses, as determined by the Court.

18. The defendant is aware that Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742 and Title
28, United States Code, Section 1291 afford the defendant the right to appeal the sentence
imposed in this case. Acknowledging this, in exchange for the undertakings made by the
Government in this plea agreement, the defendant hereby waives all rights conferred by Sections
3742 and 1291 to appeal any sentence imposed, including any restitution order, or to appeal the
manner in which the sentence was imposed, unless the sentence exceeds the maximum permitted
by statute or is the result of an upward departure and/or an upward variance from the advisory
guideline range that the Court establishes at sentencing. The defendant further understands that
nothing in this agreement shail affect the Government’s right and/or duty to appeal as set forth in

Title 18, United States Code, Section 3742(b) and Title 28, United States Code, Section 1291.

 
Case iis-cr-20276-FAM Docurnent$ Entered on FLSD Docket O4/is/e018 Page 9 of 14

x

However, if the United States appeals the defendant’s sentence pursuant to Sections 3742(b) and
1291, the defendant shall be released from the above waiver of appellate rights. In addition to
the foregoing provisions, the defendant hereby waives all rights to argue on appeal that the
statute to which the defendant is pleading guilty is unconstitutional and that the admitted conduct
does not fall within the scope of the statute. By signing this agreement, the defendant
acknowledges that the defendant has discussed the appeal waiver set forth in this agreement with
the defendant’s attorney.

19. The defendant is aware that the sentence has not yet been determined by the
Court. The defendant also is aware that any estimate of the probable sentencing range or
sentence that the defendant may receive, whether that estimate comes from the defendant’s
attorney, the Government, or the probation office, is a prediction, not a promise, and is not
binding on the Government, the probation office, or the Court. The defendant understands
further that any recommendation that the Government makes to the Court as to sentencing,
whether pursuant to this agreement or otherwise, is not binding on the Court and the Court may
disregard the recommendation in its entirety. The defendant understands and acknowledges, as
previously acknowledged in paragraph 3 above, that the defendant may not withdraw his plea
based upon the Court’s decision not to accept a sentencing recommendation made by the
defendant, the Government, or a recommendation made jointly by the defendant and the
Government.

20. The defendant recognizes that pleading guilty may have consequences with
respect to the defendant’s immigration status if the defendant is not a citizen of the United States.

Under federal law, a broad range of crimes are removable offenses, including the offense to

 
Case 1:i8-cr-20276-FAM Document Entered on FLSD Docket O4/1S/2018 Page LO of 12

which defendant is pleading guilty. Indeed, because the defendant is pleading guilty to a
conspiracy to launder money, removal is presumptively mandatory. Removal and other
immigration consequences are the subject of a separate proceeding, however, and the defendant
understands that no one, including the defendant’s attorney or the Court, can predict to a
certainty the effect of the defendant’s conviction on the defendant’s immigration status. The
defendant nevertheless affirms that the defendant wants to plead guilty regardless of any
immigration consequences that the defendant’s plea may entail, even if the consequences include
the defendant’s automatic removal from the United States, denial of citizenship, denial of
admission to the United States in the future, and denaturalization should the defendant obtain

citizenship.

10

 

 
Case 1:i8-cr-20276-FAM Document Entered on FLSD Docket O4/1S/2018 Page li of 14

22. This is the entire agreement and understanding between the Government and the

defendant. There are no other agreements, promises, representations, or understandings.

SANDRA MOSER

ACTING CHIEF, FRAUD SECTION
Criminal Division

U.S. Department of Justice

LY

JQHATHAN P. ROBELL
VANESSA SNYDER
TRIAL ATTORNEYS

Date: Yrs [2012 By:

BENJAMIN G. GREENBERG
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
Southern District of Florida

Date: 1s ets By: LE LML

for IS FOSTER-STEERS
ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY

owe 4 [13 | 2’ Py fo

sf BUNMI LOMAX ~
ATTORNEY FOR DEFENDANT

EGBRRT YVAN F. KOOLMAN
DEFENDANT

  

ve OD

 

 

I]

 
