#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT «f° J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, June 27, 2018

Aruban Telecommunications Purchasing Official Sentenced to Prison in Money Laundering
Conspiracy Involving Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Conspirators Paid Over $1.3 Million to Influence the Official and to Secure Business with State-Owned
Telecommunications Company

An Aruban official residing in Florida was sentenced to 36 months in prison today for money laundering charges in connection with his role in a
scheme to arrange and receive corrupt payments to influence the awarding of contracts with an Aruban state-owned telecommunications
corporation.

Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Benjamin G. Greenberg of the
Southern District of Florida and Assistant Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan of the FBI’s Miami, Florida Field Office made the announcement.

Egbert Yvan Ferdinand Koolman, 49, a Dutch citizen residing in Miami, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Federico A. Moreno of the Southern
District of Florida, who also ordered Koolman to serve three years of supervised release following his prison sentence and to pay over $1.3
million in restitution. Koolman was an official of Servicio di Telecommunicacion di Aruba N.V. (Setar), an instrumentality of the Aruban
government. He pleaded guilty on April 13, before Judge Moreno to one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering.

According to admissions made as part of his plea agreement, between 2005 and 2016, Koolman operated a money laundering conspiracy from
his position as Setar’s product manager. Koolman admitted that, as part of the scheme, he conspired with Parker and others to transmit funds
from Florida and elsewhere in the United States to Aruba and Panama with the intent to promote a wire fraud scheme and a corrupt scheme
that violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Koolman was promised and received bribes from individuals and companies located in
the United States and abroad in exchange for using his position at Setar to award lucrative mobile phone and accessory contracts. He received
the corrupt payments via wire transfer from banks located in the United States, in cash during meetings in Miami and in Aruba, and by
withdrawing cash in Aruba using a bank card that drew money from a U.S.-based bank account. In exchange for the more than $1.3 million in
corrupt payments that he received, Koolman also admittedly provided favored vendors with Setar’s confidential information.

In connection with the scheme, Lawrence W. Parker, Jr., 42, of Miami, pleaded guilty on Dec. 28, 2017 before U.S. District Judge Cecilia M.
Altonaga of the Southern District of Florida to one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA and to commit wire fraud. He was sentenced on April
30, to serve 35 months in prison and was ordered to pay $701,750 in restitution.

The FBI's International Corruption Unit in Miami is investigating the case. Trial Attorneys Jonathan Robell and Vanessa Snyder of the Criminal
Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Lois Foster-Steers of the Southern District of Florida are prosecuting the case. The Criminal
Division’s Office of International Affairs, as well as law enforcement colleagues in Aruba and Panama, provided significant assistance in this
matter.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):

Criminal Division

Criminal - Criminal Fraud Section
USAO - Florida, Southern

Press Release Number:
18-859

Updated March 27, 2019
