#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT «f° J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday, April 13, 2018

Aruban Telecommunications Purchasing Official Pleads Guilty to Money Laundering Conspiracy
Involving Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Conspirators Paid Over $1.3 Million to Influence the Official and to Secure Business with State-Owned
Telecommunications Company

An Aruban official residing in Florida pleaded guilty today to money laundering charges in connection with his role in a scheme to arrange and
receive corrupt payments to influence the awarding of contracts with an Aruban state-owned telecommunications corporation.

Acting Assistant Attorney General John P. Cronan of the Department of Justice’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Benjamin G. Greenberg of the
Southern District of Florida and Special Agent in Charge Robert F. Lasky of the FBI’s Miami Field Office made the announcement.

Egbert Yvan Ferdinand Koolman, 49, a Dutch citizen residing in Miami, Florida, was an official of Servicio di Telecommunicacion di Aruba N.V.
(Setar), an instrumentality of the Aruban government. Koolman pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Frederico A. Moreno of the Southern
District of Florida to one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering. He is scheduled to be sentenced on June 27.

In connection with the scheme, Lawrence W. Parker, Jr., 42, of Miami, pleaded guilty on Dec. 28, 2017 to one count of conspiracy to violate the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and to commit wire fraud. Parker’s sentencing is scheduled for April 30.

According to admissions made as part of his plea agreement, between 2005 and 2016, Koolman operated a money laundering conspiracy from
his position as Setar’s product manager. Koolman admitted that, as part of the scheme, he conspired with Parker and others to transmit funds
from Florida and elsewhere in the United States to Aruba and Panama with the intent to promote a wire fraud scheme and a corrupt scheme
that violated the FCPA. Koolman was promised and received bribes from individuals and companies located in the United States and abroad in
exchange for using his position at Setar to award lucrative mobile phone and accessory contracts, he admitted. He received the corrupt
payments via wire transfer from banks located in the United States, in cash during meetings in Miami and in Aruba, and by withdrawing cash in
Aruba using a bankcard that drew money from a United States-based bank account, he further admitted. In exchange for the more than $1.3
million in corrupt payments that he received, Koolman also admitted providing favored vendors with Setar’s confidential information.

The FBI's International Corruption Squads is investigating the case. Trial Attorneys Jonathan Robell and Vanessa Snyder of the Criminal
Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Lois Foster-Steers of the Southern District of Florida are prosecuting the case. The Criminal
Division’s Office of International Affairs also provided significant assistance.

The Criminal Division’s Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the
department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www. justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.

 

Topic(s):
Financial Fraud
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):
Criminal Division
USAO - Florida, Southern

Press Release Number:
18-477

Updated April 13, 2018
