Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 1 of 20

Timothy J. Mulreany

(Md. Bar No. 8812160123, tmulreany @cftc.gov)
Danielle Karst

(D.C. Bar No. 481881, dkarst @cftc.gov)

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Three Lafayette Centre

1155 21st Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20581

Telephone: (202) 418-5306 (Mulreany);

(202) 418-6158 (Karst)

Attorneys for Plaintiff U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA

 

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission,

Civil Action No.
Plaintiff,
Complaint For Injunctive
And Other Equitable Relief
and for Civil Monetary
Penalties Under the
Commodity Exchange Act
and Commission Regulations

V.

Cory Williams and Williams
Advisory Group, LLC,

Defendants.

Nee Nee Nee ree ee ne “ee “mee ee ee ee “ee “See”

 

Plaintiff U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission’’) alleges
as follows:
I. SUMMARY
1. From at least April 2014 through December 2016 (“Relevant Period’),
Cory Williams (“Williams”), individually and as agent and officer of Williams Advisory
Group, LLC (““WAG’’) (collectively, the “Defendants’’), fraudulently solicited and
directly accepted at least $13 million from at least 40 individuals and/or entities (“pool

participants” or “‘participants’’) to participate in a pooled investment vehicle for the
purported purpose of trading commodity futures contracts, in violation of the Commodity
Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. §§ 1-26 (2012), and its implementing regulations
(“Regulations”), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1-190.10 (2016).

2. Williams traded significant volumes of E-Mini S&P 500 futures contracts
in his personal trading accounts and lost more than $8.3 million of the $13 million of
pool participants’ funds originally taken in, while at the same time fraudulently telling
participants he was trading on their behalf at a profit. Williams used the remaining funds
received from participants to pay approximately $1.3 million for his personal expenses
and to return approximately $3.4 million to some participants.

3. At no time did Williams operate the pool as a legal entity separate from that
of the pool operator, nor did Williams ever open a pooled trading account for the benefit
of participants. Instead, Williams misappropriated pool participants’ funds and diverted
them for Defendants’ own use by: transferring pool participants’ funds to personal bank
accounts held in the name of Williams and/or the names of Williams and his wife,
Brittany Williams, and/or WAG; funding trading accounts held in the name of, and for
the benefit of, Williams; and, paying for Williams’ personal expenses. Williams further
misappropriated pool participants’ funds by diverting a portion to other participants as
withdrawals of principal or purported profits in the form of a “Ponzi” scheme.

4. Williams, individually and as agent and officer of WAG, made
misrepresentations of material facts to participants, including but not limited to, falsely
claiming to have profitably traded on behalf of participants, when in fact Williams knew

that he was consistently losing money trading participants’ funds. To conceal his fraud
from participants, Williams sent participants text messages containing fabricated weekly
profits.

5. Williams, individually and as agent and officer of WAG, also omitted
material facts in his communications with participants, including but not limited to failing
to disclose: Williams’ misappropriation of participants’ funds; Williams’ failure to
register as a commodity pool operator (“CPO”’) as required by the Act; Williams’ failure
to operate the pool as a separate legally cognizable entity in violation of the Regulations;
Williams’ commingling of funds in violation of the Regulations; and Williams’ failure to
accept funds in the name of the pool in violation of the Regulations.

6. During the Relevant Period, Williams, without registering with the
Commission as a CPO, solicited, accepted, and received funds from the public while
engaged in a business that is of the nature of an investment trust, syndicate, or similar
form of enterprise, for the purpose of, among other things, trading in commodity futures
contracts.

7. By virtue of this conduct, and as more fully set forth below, Defendants
have engaged, are engaging, or are about to engage in acts and practices in violation of
Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C)(2012), and Williams
has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in acts and practices in violation of
Sections 4m(1), 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6m(1), 60(1)(A) and (B)
(2012), and Regulations 4.20(a)(1), (b), and (c), 17 C.F.R. §§ 4.20(a)(1), (b), and (c)

(2016).
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 4 of 20

8. During the Relevant Period, Williams committed the acts and/or omissions
alleged herein both in his individual capacity and also within the course and scope of his
employment, agency, or office with Defendant WAG. WAG is therefore liable under
Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1.2, 17
C.F.R. § 1.2 (2016), for Williams’ violations of the Act and/or Regulations.

9. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012),
the Commission brings this action to enjoin Defendants’ unlawful acts and practices and
to compel compliance with the Act and Regulations.

10.‘ In addition, the Commission seeks civil monetary penalties and remedial
ancillary relief, including, but not limited to, trading and registration bans, restitution,
disgorgement, rescission, pre- and post-judgment interest, and such other relief as the
Court may deem necessary and appropriate.

11. Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, Defendants are likely to
continue to engage in the acts and practices alleged in this Complaint or in similar acts
and practices, as more fully described below.

I. JURISDICTION AND VENUE

12. The Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Section 6c of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), which authorizes the Commission to seek injunctive and
other relief against any person whenever it appears to the Commission that such person
has engaged, 1s engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a

violation of any provision of the Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder.
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 5 of 20

13. Venue properly lies with the Court pursuant to Section 6c(e) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. § 13a-1(e) (2012), because the Defendants transacted business in the District of
Arizona, and acts and practices in violation of the Act and Regulations occurred, are
occurring, or are about to occur within this District.

Il. PARTIES

14. ‘Plaintiff United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an
independent federal regulatory agency charged by Congress with the administration and
enforcement of the Act and the Regulations promulgated thereunder. The Commission
maintains its principal office at 1155 21st Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581.

15. Defendant Williams Advisory Group, LLC is an Arizona limited liability
company formed on September 27, 2010, with its principal place of business at 2484 E.
Lodgepole Drive, Gilbert, Arizona 85298. WAG has never been registered in any
capacity with the Commission.

16. Defendant Cory Williams is an individual residing in Gilbert, Arizona.
Williams is the founder, President and agent of WAG. Williams has never been
registered in any capacity with the Commission.

IV. FACTS
A. The Fraudulent Scheme

17. During the Relevant Period, Williams, individually and as agent and
principal of WAG, solicited and received at least $13 million from at least 40 pool
participants. Williams knowingly and falsely represented to actual and prospective

participants that the funds were pooled and used to trade E-Mini S&P 500 futures
oy
CD

e
e
r
>
M
o
”
C3
e”
Y
eles
fin

2
Cy
e”
eo

contracts on behalf of the pool; that Williams was an experienced and profitable trader;
and that Williams’ trading for the pool was consistently profitable. All of these
representations were false.

18. To execute the fraudulent scheme, Williams, individually and as agent and
principal of WAG, solicited family members, friends, neighbors, members of his church
and other Mormon churches in and around Phoenix, Arizona. Williams solicited pool
participants in person and by word-of-mouth.

19. At Williams’ instruction, pool participants sent funds directly to personal
bank accounts held in the name of Williams and/or the names of Williams and Brittany
Williams at various banks, including but not limited to: Compass Bank, J.P. Morgan
Chase and Wells Fargo (collectively, “Williams Personal Bank Accounts”). Of the at
least $13 million solicited and accepted from pool participants, Williams misappropriated
participants’ funds by transferring more than $8.3 million in participants’ funds from his
personal bank accounts to eight of Williams’ personal trading accounts at registered
futures commission merchants (“FCMs’) AMP Clearing, Dorman, Gain Capital, and MB
Trading Futures (“Williams Personal Trading Accounts’’). None of these accounts were
held in the name of a commodity pool.

20. During the Relevant Period, Williams misappropriated participants’ funds,
traded significant volumes of futures contracts in his personal accounts using
participants’ funds, and consistently suffered heavy losses. Williams’ trading for his own
benefit in his personal accounts resulted in losses of more than $8.3 million. Williams

lost money every single month he traded from April 2014 through and including
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 7 of 20

December 2016, all the while falsely representing to participants that he was profitably
trading on their behalf. As of December 31, 2016, all of Williams’ personal trading
accounts had been closed.

21. Williams returned approximately $3.4 million of the original $13 million in
participant funds to certain participants as withdrawals of principal or as purported
trading “profits” in furtherance of Defendants’ fraudulent scheme. However, the
majority of participants were unable to obtain a return of their funds.

22. Williams used the remaining $1.3 million of the at least $13 million
originally received from participants to pay for his personal expenses throughout the
Relevant Period on such items as jewelry, charitable donations in his name, and living
expenses.

23.  Atall relevant times, Williams and his wife, Brittany Williams, were the
sole signatories on the Williams Personal Bank Accounts. Williams was the sole person
authorized to trade in the Williams Personal Trading Accounts. Accordingly, at all
relevant times Williams had personal knowledge of the amount of funds accepted from
participants, the disposition of those funds, the number of trades effected on behalf of
participants, as well as the losses in the Williams Personal Trading Accounts and the
complete absence of any profitable trading.

B. Operation of the Pool and Commingling

 

24. During the Relevant Period, Williams acted as a CPO by soliciting,
accepting, and receiving funds from the public while engaged in a business that is of the

nature of an investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise, for the purpose of,
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 8 of 20

among other things, trading in commodity futures, without being registered with the
Commission as a CPO.

25. | Atno time did Williams create or operate the pool as an entity cognizable
as a legal entity separate from the pool operator. As a result, at no time were any funds
from pool participants received in the pool’s name because a separate pool was never
created.

26. During the Relevant Period, Williams failed to maintain pool funds
separately from Williams’ own funds. Williams commingled pool participants’ funds
with personal funds of Williams and Brittany Williams. As described above, pool
participants deposited at least $13 million in the Williams Personal Bank Accounts,
controlled by Williams. Williams transferred over $8.3 million in participants’ funds to
the Williams Personal Trading Accounts.

C. Material Misrepresentations and Omissions of Material Facts

27. During the Relevant Period, Williams, individually and as agent and
principal of WAG, made fraudulent misrepresentations in person, via telephone, and via
text messages to attract and retain pool participants, including that:

a. Pool participant funds would be pooled to trade commodity futures and
returns would be derived from the pool’s trading profits;
b. Williams was a successful and profitable trader; and

c. Williams’ trading was consistently profitable during the Relevant Period.
28. During the Relevant Period, Williams, individually and as agent and
principal of WAG, knowingly made numerous material omissions to attract and retain
pool participants, including by failing to disclose that:

a. Williams never set up the pool as an entity cognizable as a legal entity
separate from the pool operator;

b. No trading on behalf of the pool took place;

c. Williams misappropriated pool participants’ funds for his own use;

d. Williams was not registered with the Commission as a CPO as required
by the Act and was operating the pool without the required CPO
registration;

e. Williams commingled participants’ funds with his own funds and
WAG’s funds in violation of federal law; and

f. Purported “returns” or withdrawals of principal paid to some pool
participants were in fact the principal deposits of other pool participants
and were not generated by profitable futures trading.

29. To perpetuate Defendants’ fraudulent scheme and to solicit additional pool
participants, Williams also sent text messages to participants containing fabricated
weekly profits. These text messages falsely represented that trading on behalf of
participants had occurred, and that participants’ investments had increased in value as a
result of profitable futures trading by Williams. For example, one participant received an
August 1, 2016 text message from Williams reporting the following fabricated weekly

returns for the pool in May, June, and July 2016:
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 10 of 20

[Week of] 5/20 20k

[Week of] 5/27 25k

[Week of] 6/3 25k

[Week of] 6/10 25k

[Week of] 7/22 30k

[Week of] 7/29 30k
Williams’ text message falsely represented that the participant’s investment had increased
in value as a result of profitable futures trading by Williams. In reality, pool participants
accrued no profits and suffered total or near total losses of their deposits.

D. Misappropriation of Pool Participants’ Funds

30. | While Williams represented to pool participants that all pool funds would
be used to trade commodity futures on behalf of pool participants, in reality none of the
funds Defendants accepted from pool participants were traded on their behalf.

31. | During the Relevant Period, instead of pooling and trading pool
participants’ funds in commodity futures as promised, Williams misappropriated
participants’ funds for unauthorized purposes, including paying his own personal
expenses, and for the benefit of Williams’ own trading accounts.

32. | Williams used pool participants’ funds to pay his own personal expenses
including dining, jewelry, vacations, and charitable donations. Williams did not disclose
unauthorized uses of pool participants’ funds to participants or prospective participants.

33. | Williams also misappropriated participant funds to pay purported “profits,”
or areturn of principal, to some participants in order to create the illusion that the pool

was trading, and trading profitably. Williams did not disclose the nature of these

payments to pool participants or prospective pool participants.

10
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 11 of 20

34. | Numerous pool participants made repeated demands on Williams for the
return of their funds. Williams falsely represented to certain participants that he could
not return their funds because the trading firm where the account was located had frozen
the account. Williams failed to comply with participants’ redemption demands, and the
majority of participants were unable to obtain a return of their funds.

V. VIOLATIONS OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT
COUNT ONE
FRAUD IN CONNECTION WITH COMMODITY FUTURES CONTRACTS
VIOLATIONS OF SECTIONS 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) OF THE ACT
(Against all Defendants)

35. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are re-alleged and
incorporated herein by reference.

36. Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C) (2012),
provide in relevant part, that it is unlawful:

for any person, in or in connection with any order to make, or the making

of, any contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce or for

future delivery that is made, or to be made, on or subject to the rules of a

designated contract market, for or on behalf of any other person — (A) to

cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud the other person; (B)

willfully to make or cause to be made to the other person any false report or

statement or willfully to enter or cause to be entered for the other person

any false record; [or] (C) willfully to deceive or attempt to deceive the

other person by any means whatsoever in regard to any order or contract or

the disposition or execution of any order or contract, or in regard to any act

of agency performed, with respect to any order or contract for such other

person.

37. As described herein, Defendants violated Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the

Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C) (2012), by cheating or defrauding, or attempting to

11
cheat or defraud other persons; issuing or causing to be issued false statements; and
willfully deceiving or attempting to deceive other persons in connection with the offering
of, or entering into, the commodity futures contracts alleged herein, by, among other
things: (4) fraudulently soliciting pool participants by making material misrepresentations
and omissions about Williams’ trading abilities and profits, and Williams’ use of
deposited funds; (41) misappropriating pool participants’ funds to trade in Williams’
Personal Trading Accounts, to pay redemptions or to pay for Williams’ personal
expenses; and (111) providing text messages to participants with fabricated weekly profits,
all in violation of Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C)
(2012).

38. | Williams engaged in the acts and practices described above knowingly,
willfully or with reckless disregard for the truth thereof.

39. Throughout the Relevant Period, Williams controlled WAG, directly or
indirectly, and did not act in good faith, or knowingly induced, directly or indirectly, the
acts constituting WAG’s violations alleged in this count. Williams is therefore liable for
WAG’s violations of the Act and Regulations, as alleged in this count, pursuant to
Section 13(b) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(b) (2012).

40. The foregoing acts of fraudulent solicitation, misappropriation, omission and
false statements by Williams occurred within the scope of his employment, office or agency
with WAG. Therefore, WAG is liable for Williams’ violations of the Act and Regulations, as
alleged in this count, pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012),

and Regulation 1.2, 17 C.F.R. § 1.2 (2016).

12
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 13 of 20

41. Each act of fraudulent solicitation, misappropriation and false statement or
report, including but not limited to those specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a
separate and distinct violation of Section 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C) (2012).
COUNT TWO
FRAUD BY A COMMODITY POOL OPERATOR
VIOLATIONS OF SECTIONS 40(1)(A) and (B) OF THE ACT
(Against Cory Williams)

42. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are re-alleged and
incorporated herein by reference.

43. Sections 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 8§ 60(1)(A) and (B) (2012),
make it unlawful for a CPO to use the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate
commerce, directly or indirectly — (A) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to
defraud any client or participant or prospective client or participant; or (B) to engage in
any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit upon
any client or participant or prospective client or participant.

44. As alleged herein, during the Relevant Period, Williams acted as a CPO by
soliciting, accepting, or receiving funds from the public while engaged in a business that
is of the nature of an investment trust, syndicate or similar form of enterprise, for the
purpose of, among other things, trading in commodity futures.

45. Williams violated Sections 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§§ 60(1)(A) and (B) (2012), in that he employed or is employing a device, scheme, or

artifice to defraud actual and prospective pool participants or engaged or is engaging in

13
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 14 of 20

transactions, practices, or a course of business which operated or operates as a fraud or
deceit upon pool participants or prospective pool participants, including without
limitation: misappropriation of participants’ funds, sending text messages containing
fabricated weekly profits, misrepresenting and/or omitting material facts in solicitations
and communications with participants, and acting as a CPO without registering as such as
required by the Act.

46. Each act of fraudulent solicitation, misappropriation and false statement or
report, including but not limited to those specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a
separate and distinct violation of Sections 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C.

§§ 60(1)(A) and (B) (2012).
COUNT THREE
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES BY A COMMODITY POOL OPERATOR
VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS 4.20(A)(1), (B), and (C)
(Against Cory Williams)

47. The allegations set forth in the preceding paragraphs are re-alleged and
incorporated herein by reference.

48. Regulation 4.20(a)(1), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(a)(1) (2016), provides, “Except as
provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a commodity pool operator must operate its
pool as an entity cognizable as a legal entity separate from that of the pool operator.”

49. As set forth above, during the Relevant Period, Williams acted as a CPO by
soliciting, accepting, or receiving funds from the public while engaged in a business that
is of the nature of an investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise, for the

purpose of, among other things, trading in commodity futures.

14
50. During the Relevant Period, Williams, in operating an investment trust,
syndicate, or similar form of enterprise for the purpose of, among other things, trading in
commodity futures, did not operate the pool as an entity cognizable as a legal entity
separate from himself, the pool operator, in violation of Regulation 4.20(a)(1), 17 C.F.R.
§ 4.20(a)(1) (2016).

51. Regulation 4.20(b), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(b) (2016), provides: “All funds,
securities or other property received by a commodity pool operator from an existing or
prospective pool participant for the purchase of an interest or as an assessment (whether
voluntary or involuntary) on an interest in a pool that it operates or that it intends to
operate must be received in the pool’s name.”

52. As set forth above, during the Relevant Period, Williams, by operating an
investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise for the purpose of, among other
things, trading in commodity futures, failed to operate the pool as an entity cognizable as
a legal entity separate from the pool operator, and received funds, securities or other
property from existing or prospective pool participants for the purchase of an interest in
the pool without receiving same in the pool’s name, in violation of Regulation 4.20(b), 17
C.F.R. § 4.20(b) (2016).

53. Regulation 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(c) (2016), provides, “No commodity
pool operator may commingle the property of any pool that it operates or that it intends to
operate with the property of any other person.”

54. As set forth above, during the Relevant Period, Williams commingled pool

participants’ funds by: failing to maintain pool funds separately from Williams’ funds

15
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 16 of 20

and WAG’s funds; commingling pool funds with the personal funds of Williams and
Brittany Williams and the funds of WAG; and, placing pool funds into the personal bank
and trading accounts of Williams, in violation of Regulation 4.20(c), 17 C.F.R. § 4.20(c)
(2016).

55. Each act and/or omission of Williams, including but not limited to those
specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a separate and distinct violation of Regulations
4.20(a)(1), (b) and (c), 17 C.F.R. §§ 4.20(a)(1), (b) and (c) (2016).

COUNT FOUR
FAILURE TO REGISTER AS A COMMODITY POOL OPERATOR
VIOLATION OF SECTION 4m(1) OF THE ACT
(Against Cory Williams)

56. The allegations in the preceding paragraphs are re-alleged and incorporated
herein by reference.

57. Section 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1) (2012), makes it unlawful for
any CPO, unless registered with the Commission, to make use of the mails or any means
or instrumentality of interstate commerce in connection with its business as a CPO.

58. | During the Relevant Period, Williams engaged in the acts and practices
described above using the mails or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, including but
not limited to: telephone, electronic mail, and text messages, while failing to register with
the Commission, in violation of Section 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1) (2012).

59. During the Relevant Period, Williams was not exempt from registering as a

CPO.

16
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 17 of 20

60. Each use of the mails or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, including
but not limited to: telephone, electronic mail, and text messages by Williams, including
but not limited to those specifically alleged herein, is alleged as a separate and distinct
violation of Section 4m(1) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6m(1) (2012).

VI. RELIEF REQUESTED

 

WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court, as authorized
by Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012), and pursuant to its own equitable
powers, enter:

A. An order finding that Defendants violated Sections 4b(a)(1)(A)-(C) of the

Act, 7 U.S.C. 8§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C) (2012), and Defendant Williams violated
Sections 4m(1), 40(1)(A) and (B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 6m(1), 60(1)(A)
and (B) (2012), and Regulations 4.20(a)(1), (b), and (c), 17 C.F.R.

§§ 4.20(a)(1), (b), and (c) (2016);

B. An order of permanent injunction prohibiting Defendants and any of their
agents, servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, holding companies, alter
egos, and persons in active concert or participation with Defendants,
including any of their successors, from, directly or indirectly:

1. Trading on or subject to the rules of any registered entity (as that
term is defined in Section la of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § la 2012));
2. Entering into any transactions involving “commodity interests” (as

that term is defined in Regulation 1.3(yy), 17 C.F.R. § 1.3(yy)

17
(2016)), for their own personal account or for any account in which
they have a direct or indirect interest;

Having any commodity interests traded on their behalf;

Controlling or directing the trading for or on behalf of any other
person or entity, whether by power of attorney or otherwise, in any
account involving commodity interests;

Soliciting, receiving, or accepting any funds from any person for the
purpose of purchasing or selling any commodity interests;

Applying for registration or claiming exemption from registration
with the Commission in any capacity, and engaging in any activity
requiring such registration or exemption from registration with the
Commission except as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17
C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2016);

Acting as a principal (as that term is defined in Regulation 3.1(a), 17
C.F.R. § 3.1(a) (2016)), agent, or any other officer or employee of
any person registered, exempted from registration, or required to be
registered with the Commission, except as provided for in
Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2016);

Engaging in any business activities related to commodity interests;

An order directing Defendants, as well as any of their successors thereof,

holding companies and alter egos, to disgorge, pursuant to such procedure

as the Court may order, all benefits received from the acts or practices

18
re
1?)
od
vex
”

“cn

»)

re
oo

which constitute violations of the Act and the Regulations, as described
herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from the date of such
violations;

An order directing Defendants, as well as any successors thereof, to make
full restitution to every person or entity whose funds they received or
caused another person or entity to receive as a result of acts and practices
that constituted violations of the Act and the Regulations, as described
herein, and pre- and post-judgment interest thereon from the date of such
violations;

An order directing Defendants, as well as any successors thereof, to provide
a full accounting of all pool participant funds they have received during the
Relevant Period as a result of the acts and practices that constituted
violations of the Act and Regulations, as described herein;

An order directing Defendants, as well as any successors thereof, holding
companies, and alter egos, to rescind, pursuant to such procedures as the
Court may order, all contracts and agreements, whether implied or express,
entered into between them and any pool participants whose funds were
received by them as a result of the acts and practices which constituted
violations of the Act and Regulations, as described herein;

An order directing Defendants to pay a civil monetary penalty for each
violation of the Act and the Regulations described herein, plus post-

judgment interest, in the amount of the higher of: (1) $170,472 for each

19
Case 2:17-cv-01325-JJT Document 1 Filed 05/03/17 Page 20 of 20

violation of the Act and Regulations committed; or (2) triple the monetary

gain to Defendants for each violation of the Act and the Regulations, plus

post-judgment interest;

H. An order requiring Defendants to pay costs and fees as permitted by

28 U.S.C. 8§ 1920 and 2412(a)(2) (2012); and

I. Such other and further relief as the Court deems proper.

Dated: May 3, 2017

Respectfully submitted,

U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION

/s/ Danielle Karst
TIMOTHY J. MULREANY
DANIELLE KARST
Attorneys for Plaintiff

U.S. COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION

1155 21st Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20581
Telephone: (202) 418-5000
tmulreany @cftc.gov

dkarst @cftc.gov

 

20
