2020-BCFP-0005 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 1 of 56

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP- 0005

 

In the Matter of:

CONSENT ORDER

Sovereign Lending Group, Inc.

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed certain
direct-mail mortgage advertising activities of Sovereign Lending Group, Inc.
(Sovereign or Respondent, as defined below) and identified violations of § 1026.24
of Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, the implementing regulation of the Truth in
Lending Act (TILA), 15 U.S.C. §$§ 1601—1667f; § 1014.3 of the Mortgage Acts
and Practices—Advertising Rule (MAP Rule or Regulation N), 12 C.F.R. §
1014.3; and §§ 1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12

U.S.C. 88 5563, 5565, the Bureau issues this Consent Order.
Overview
Sovereign is a mortgage broker and lender that offers and provides
mortgages guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA). Occasionally, it has acted as the creditor, providing loans itself; in
other situations, it has acted as a broker, arranging for another creditor to
provide loans.
Sovereign advertises these mortgage products to consumers through direct-
mail advertising campaigns targeted primarily at United States military
servicemembers and veterans.
Sovereign has sent consumers hundreds of thousands of advertisements that
violate federal law because of misleading and deceptive statements and
inadequate disclosures.
The Bureau brings this action to stop Sovereign from distributing
advertisements with misleading and deceptive statements and inadequate
disclosures to servicemembers, veterans, and other consumers.

II.
Jurisdiction

The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the

CFPA, 12 U.S.C. $$ 5563, 5565; § 108 of the Truth in Lending Act, 12
AAPA PRR PPPS A = - er wees > ASTRA A RRA my “~ comp
MAO R EE AAS Mactomant 4 Riba OP PO ALB Ao Dea A at Re
ere be PS CE ber Ee em Rose PGP eee ye : PrniGer) db sor nas ph Bet lek tf Bot 2 GAG :
She ad BP et NE Fe A Ras? & Age eke hd PoE Ler Po eo Po CANNES af Mb kg

U.S.C. § 1607; and § 626 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, as
amended by § 1097 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5538.

Hl.
Stipulation

Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated July 10, 2020 (Stipulation), which is incorporated by
reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this Stipulation, Respondent has
consented to the issuance of this Consent Order by the Bureau under §§

1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, without admitting or
denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that
Respondent admits the facts necessary to establish the Bureau’s jurisdiction
over Respondent and the subject matter of this action.

IV.
Definitions

The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Advertising Compliance Official” means an individual designated by
Respondent as the person responsible for performing the tasks and
duties required under Paragraph 125. The Advertising Compliance

Official must be a director or senior-level executive (e.g., president,
BOO ORE RL OAS Pee
PE PP Lalas

athe A A

chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer,
chief information officer, senior vice president, or managing member)
of Respondent, or an individual who reports directly to the president,
chief executive officer, managing member, or board of directors of
Respondent.

“Clearly and Prominently” means the disclosure must be in a font size
of at least 10 points; on the same side of the page as the term, if any,
that triggers the disclosure; in print that contrasts with the background
on which it appears; presented before the consumer incurs any
financial obligation; in an understandable language and syntax; and
with nothing contrary to, inconsistent with, or in mitigation of the
disclosures used in any communication with the consumer.

“Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is
issued.

“Enforcement Director” means the Assistant Director of the Office of
Enforcement for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or his
or her delegate.

“Exemplar” means an example of an advertisement fully populated
with the terms contained in the advertisement as sent, posted,

published, or disseminated to a consumer.
10.

f. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on

substantially the same facts as described in Section V of this Consent

Order.

g. “Relevant Period” includes from January 1, 2016, to the Effective
Date.

h. “Respondent” means Sovereign Lending Group, Inc., and its

successors and assigns.

V.
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:

Sovereign is a California corporation with its principal place of business in
Costa Mesa, California.

Sovereign is licensed as a mortgage broker or lender in about 44 states and
the District of Columbia.

Sovereign is a “person,” as defined in the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(19),
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(22), and the MAP Rule, 12 C.F.R. §

1014.2, because it is a corporation.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

AAS PAPE ET > _ Co ween 2 ATTRA BN ry o~ oom
AAG Mere AAMS Mauer pesca of Cae API APM Mase KG xf &
OLE et ae PS Sie ber ad PD ER Pe Re MUPiesk rey Peiehec) Ga sr eae ep ee eer tbe OS OE
She ad BP et NE Fe A Bat Ae Re ed Bo eiMwe td Le Poe OS SA B Gtwate A kee

During the Relevant Period, Sovereign has been a “covered person” under
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6)(A), because it is a person that engages in
offering and providing residential-mortgage loans, which are “consumer
financial product|s]| or service[s]” under the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(5), (6),
(15)(A)Q@).

During the Relevant Period, Sovereign has been subject to the MAP Rule
because it is a person over which the Federal Trade Commission has
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58.
12 C.F.R. § 1014.1. The MAP Rule is a Federal consumer financial law. 12
U.S.C. § 548114).

Sovereign provides “mortgage credit product[s],” as that term is defined in
the MAP Rule. 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

Sovereign’s mortgage advertisements are “commercial communications”
regarding a term of a “mortgage credit product,” as those terms are defined
in 12 C.F.R. § 1014.2.

During the Relevant Period, Sovereign has offered “closed-end credit” in the
form of mortgage loans to “consumers,” as those terms are defined in
Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10) & (11).

Sovereign’s mortgage advertisements are advertisements for “closed-end

credit,” as that term is defined in Regulation Z. 12 C.F.R. § 1026.2(a)(10).
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

AAA Derren mae Ps
MUO BP Re GUUS LIOR

athe A A

Sovereign offers consumer mortgages, including mortgages guaranteed by
the VA.

Sovereign’s principal means of advertising VA-guaranteed mortgages is
through direct-mail advertisements sent to consumers, including veterans
and servicemembers.

Since January 2016, Sovereign has mailed millions of mortgage
advertisements to consumers in about 44 states and the District of Columbia.
Hundreds of thousands of consumers have received at least one of
Sovereign’s direct-mail advertisements, and thousands of consumers have

obtained mortgages through Sovereign.
False, Misleading, and Inaccurate Representations

Federal consumer financial law contains numerous provisions banning the
use of misleading and deceptive statements in mortgage advertisements.
Despite those prohibitions, Sovereign was responsible for both the content
of, and the dissemination of, numerous mortgage advertisements during the
Relevant Period that contained false, misleading, and inaccurate statements,

as described below.
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

False, Misleading, and Inaccurate
Representations About Cost and Other Credit Terms

Most of Sovereign’s mortgage advertisements stated specific credit terms,
such as an interest rate, annual percentage rate (APR), and payment amount.
By stating specific credit terms in its advertisements, Sovereign represented,
expressly or by implication, that it arranged or offered a mortgage with those
credit terms.

In fact, Sovereign did not arrange or offer mortgages with the specific credit
terms stated in many of those advertisements.

In numerous instances, Sovereign misrepresented the actual credit terms
applicable to the mortgages that it would arrange or offer.

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements described mortgages with a
simple interest rate and APR combination that, on the date of the
advertisement, Sovereign was not actually prepared to arrange or offer.

For example, Sovereign advertisements sent to 87,000 consumers in
September 2018 advertised a variable-rate mortgage with a fixed interest
rate of 2.75% for the first five years and an APR of 3.5%.

In fact, the advertised APR was not correct because it did not take into

account the fully indexed rate, required discount points, or origination fees.
30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

The actual APR for this loan, calculated in accordance with Regulation Z
and taking into account the fully indexed rate, required discount points, and
origination, underwriting, and funding fees, exceeded 3.75%.

Accordingly, Sovereign misrepresented the actual APR for loans offered in
these advertisements.

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements misrepresented the payment
amount applicable to the advertised mortgage and the existence, nature, or
amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection with the
mortgage.

For example, Sovereign advertisements sent to 87,000 consumers in
September 2018 stated in a box near the top, “Take $27,909 CASH-OUT
FOR ONLY $113.94 PER MONTH!” (upper case in original).

In reality, obtaining any cash-out amount against the consumer’s home
equity would be possible only if the consumer had an existing mortgage and
refinanced the entire amount owed on that mortgage as part of a cash-out
refinance mortgage, resulting in a total monthly payment larger than
$113.94.

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements misleadingly advertised

variable-rate loans as “fixed” rate loans.
36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

ARAN RA ARE ~ . 4 weg ks
2OOH Re RASA Mie issycinmt 4 Clad OP IOA PAH
SSP eM tat RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od Pitas a

For example, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 19,600 consumers in
February 2019 used the phrase “New FIXED Rate” (upper case in original)
next to the advertised interest rate on the front, but in fine print on the back,
stated that the advertised loan was, in fact, a variable-rate mortgage.

In these advertisements, the phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,” “Variable-
Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” did not appear before the first use of the word
“fixed,” nor was the phrase at least as conspicuous as any use of the word
“fixed” in the advertisements.

In these advertisements, the word “fixed” was not accompanied by an
equally prominent and closely proximate statement of the period for which
the rate or payment would be fixed, and of the fact that the rate may vary or
the payment may increase after that period.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 27-38
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.
4).

42.

43.

44,

45.

AMAA SPM ANAS PN, nt A Pree PRP RN Ee Maw At ah ee
AO OL SE BAAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan AYPpPealrenen Biaewee Ft wt RS
Sa tet Ft RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od YESS PS 2 eo ee 5 ake oF ob Aad Pt

False and Misleading Representations About the Consumer’s Ability or

Likelihood to Obtain the Advertised Credit Term

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements falsely represented that
consumers were prequalified for, or had a high likelihood of obtaining, the
advertised loan.

For example, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 25,500 consumers in
October 2018 stated: “As a VA loan holder, you’re prequalified to upgrade
your home loan and pay off your mortgage sooner by refinancing with
Sovereign ....” These advertisements also stated: “PRESCREEN & OPT-
OUT NOTICE: This ‘prescreened’ offer of credit is based on information in
your credit report indicating that you meet certain criteria” (emphasis in
original).

In fact, consumers who received these advertisements had not been selected
or screened based on credit scores or other prescreened credit data.

In another example, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 4,300
consumers in October 2018 stated near the top of the front page “Low FICO
Score OK,” among or in close proximity to other specific credit terms of the
advertised loan, such as the APR, interest rate, and payment amount.

But in fine print on the back, these advertisements stated: “Offer rate...

assumes ... all borrowers having a credit score of at least 740.” The
46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

ARAM PAE AM AE ~ cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

statement “Low FICO Score OK” was false and did not apply to the loans
offered in these advertisements.

Sovereign targeted these advertisements to consumers with FICO scores in
the range of 560-750. Thus, most consumers who received these
advertisements likely did not have a credit score of at least 740 and therefore
would not have been candidates for the advertised loan.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 41-46
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.

False and Misleading Representations About
an Affiliation with the Government

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements falsely represented, directly
or by implication, that Sovereign was affiliated with the government.

For example, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 87,000 consumers in
September 2018 contained these phrases or terms: “Eligibility Notice;”
“Reference #: V146310333”; and “[a]s a VA loan holder, the Department of
Veteran Affairs allows you to combine... .” These advertisements were
published on light green paper that is similar to the light green paper that the

VA has used for Certificates of Eligibility, and the VA Certificates of
SI.

52.

53.

54.

ARAN AAP ANAS PA ee emt PN A IY mh. aN EER
eOS OR CE RLOOOS Pocument 7 Pidacd G7 feaAfeoeg Rane TR of SH
than Sad an at Rad Nat F tat te AEN Ed POPPA A Pe a : Re Pe

Eligibility contain a certificate “Reference Number” that generally has eight
digits.

In another example, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 236,900
consumers in February 2019 stated “Eligibility Status: Pending
Authorization;” “Mortgage Payment Reduction Notification;” “Reduction
Notice;” “Reference # V107652374;” and “[als a VA loan holder, the
Department of Veteran Affairs allows you to combine... .” These
advertisements included the year “2019” printed in block numbers in the top
right corner, with the “20” in white and the “19” in black, a distinctive
format used by the IRS. These advertisements also set forth information in
boxes similar to an IRS Form W-4.

Those representations were false because Sovereign was not affiliated with
the government.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 49-52
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or

decisions with regard to obtaining a loan.
55.

56.

57.

58.

SAM RO AMAR an mt A eo PN Pe Name AA wh ee
AO OL SE BAAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clan AYPpPealrenen Biawem F4 Af RS
Sa tet Fat BA AEN Pa POPS! AS PD rc ole : ghee ober Geb Grae

False Representations About Late Payments,
Rate Adjustments, and Payment Increases

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements contained false statements
that the consumer was late on her loan payments and that there were
unauthorized rate adjustments or unnecessary payment increases on her loan.
Specifically, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 236,900 consumers in
February 2019 stated in a banner across the center: “NOTICE REGARDING
LATE PAYMENT, UNAUTHORIZED INTEREST RATE
ADJUSTMENTS OR UNNECESSARY PAYMENT INCREASES YOUR
IMMEDIATE PARTICIPATION IS REQUESTED” (upper case in
original).

These representations were false. The advertisements were not notices
regarding late payments, unauthorized interest rate adjustments, or
unnecessary payment increases.

The advertisements were likely to lead consumers into believing that they
needed to read the advertisement because the consumer was purportedly late
with mortgage payments or because her current lender had purportedly
wrongly charged additional sums through improper interest rate or payment
increases. The advertisements were also likely to lead consumers into

believing that refinancing with Sovereign would avoid or prevent the
59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

ARON Ser AAAS e LA md
SOOO RCE DIAS Raciuoant 7 Bilact { Ae OeG
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE at BHAA Ed piteka Sir ge

purported late payment, rate adjustments, or payment increases on the
consumer’s existing loan, or associated negative impacts.

The advertisements purported to convey important information about the
consumer’s existing loan in a manner that would induce the consumer to
read the advertisement, and that would frighten or pressure the consumer
into potentially obtaining a new loan from Sovereign.

Consumers who received the advertisements described in Paragraphs 55-59
were likely to be misled by them.

The advertisements were also likely to affect consumers’ conduct or
decisions regarding a product or service.

Inadequate Disclosures

Most of Sovereign’s mortgage advertisements stated a number of payments,
payment amount, or simple annual rate of interest. Under certain sections of
Regulation Z, including § 1026.24(c), (d), and (f), the use of these terms
triggers specific disclosure requirements. Many of the advertisements did
not include the other disclosures that are required, or did not include them in
the manner required.

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements stated the number of

payments or the amount of a payment, but failed to state the terms of
64.

65.

66.

67.

ARAN RAPE ANAS PN oe a meee Pe Pe mo
eOS OR CE RLOOOS Pocument 7 Pidacd G7 feaAfeoeg Maaa Ts of 5
Sa teed at BHAA Ed Pika AAP eo ae she yok

repayment reflecting the consumer’s repayment obligations over the full
term of the loan.

For example, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 19,600 consumers in
February 2019 stated that the advertised loan would require a total of 360
payments and a fixed monthly payment of $923 that would apply to the first
five years.

Although these advertisements stated the number of payments and the
payment amount for the fixed-rate period of the loan, they failed to state the
amount of each payment and the number and period of the payments during
the variable-rate period of the loan (years 6 to 30).

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements for a loan for which more
than one interest rate would apply stated a simple annual rate of interest, but
failed to state the period during which each simple annual rate of interest
would apply; failed to state an accurate APR for the loan because the stated
APR was not correctly calculated under the accuracy standards set forth in
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. §§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22; or failed to state these
terms clearly and conspicuously.

For example, Sovereign advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to
at least 87,000 consumers in September 2018 stated on the front a simple

annual interest rate of 2.75% and an APR of 3.5% that applied to the first
68.

69.

70.

71.

Aon Orem Amer Pena sat Pew at PYRE ,
POOR E DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian YP Poa hoanyen
on Sf thn RP Ba LE tat BaP ASP ETA eR OT hives TP A eS

five years of the advertised loan, but the advertised APR was not correct
because it did not take into account the fully indexed rate, discount points
required to obtain the advertised interest rate, and origination fees.

The actual APR for this loan, calculated in accordance with Regulation Z
and taking into account the fully indexed rate, discount points required to
obtain the advertised interest rate, and origination fees, exceeded 3.75%.
The APR disclosed in the advertisements did not comply with the accuracy
standards set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 1026.22(a)(2).

The advertisements also did not contain an equally prominent and closely
proximate statement of the period during which the 2.75% interest rate
would apply. The fact that the advertised interest rate applied only to the
first five years was disclosed in fine print on the back of the advertisements.
Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements stated the amount of a
payment, but failed to state the amount of each payment that would apply
over the term of the loan (e.g., for adjustable-rate mortgages, payments
based on the application of the sum of a reasonably current index and
margin); or failed to state the period during which each payment would
apply.

For example, Sovereign advertisements for a variable-rate mortgage sent to

at least 87,000 consumers in September 2018 stated an estimated payment
72.

73.

ARAN MPR Amar ~ a pry os
POOL RE DLOANAS Paciiyent 4 Puan FYPfoa!
Ba Sf tn ST et ce BAAS PEASE Ed piteka

amount that was based on an introductory, discount rate of 2.75% that
applied only to the first five years of the advertised loan. That payment was
not calculated based on the index and margin that would be used to make
subsequent payment adjustments over the remaining term of the loan, and
the advertisements failed to state any payment amount based on a reasonably
current index and margin. As of the date of the advertisements, the fully
indexed rate, based on a reasonably current index and margin, was at least
4.3%. The advertisements failed to disclose the payment amounts associated
with that rate after the first five years. Moreover, the advertisements failed
to state the period during which each payment would apply.

Numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements used the name of the
consumer’s current lender without disclosing with equal prominence the
name of the person making the advertisement and without including a clear
and conspicuous statement that the person making the advertisement was not
associated with or acting on behalf of the consumer’s current lender.
Specifically, Sovereign advertisements sent to at least 87,000 consumers in
September 2018 used the name of the consumer’s current lender without
disclosing with equal prominence the name of the person making the

advertisement and without including a clear and conspicuous statement that
74.

75.

70.

AMAA RPM ANAM ~ . 4 ots moe gE ~~ ae a=
2OOH Re RASA Miners t fF Clad OP IOA PAH Merwe TO anf Ae
CITES WAALS BASLE EER PER Od Yikes PP eo PU eR Ob SP ASE UP

the person making the advertisement was not associated with or acting on
behalf of the consumer’s current lender.

VIOLATIONS OF REGULATION Z
Unavailable Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(a), “[i]f an advertisement for credit states
specific credit terms, it shall state only those terms that actually are or will
be arranged or offered by the creditor.”

Sovereign violated § 1026.24(a) because, as described in Paragraphs 23-38,
numerous Sovereign advertisements for credit stated specific credit terms
other than those terms that actually were or would be arranged or offered by

the creditor.
Terms of Repayment, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), if an advertisement sets forth any of the
four specified triggering terms (the amount or percentage of any
downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the amount
of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge), the advertisement
must also state, among other things, “[t]he terms of repayment, which reflect
the repayment obligations over the full term of the loan, including any

balloon payment.” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(d)(1), (2)(i1).
77.

78.

79.

AAA FA Ame oa cA pay Soe Ne ee a me aoe
320M Beem AAS Peek crescendo Cian PVP POA FOO Deeace GO at Ee
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot Pr prea ro ie ae pe ef Ss rk Gye ye
Bon dl ate RU Ra ONE BaP AS SPEER Pkg PoP PPS. a a : a Ba Na Made ,

Sovereign violated § 1026.24(d) because, as described in Paragraphs 63-65,
numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements set forth the period of
repayment or the amount of any payment, which are triggering terms under §
1026.24(d)(1)(i1) and (111), but failed to state the repayment obligations over

the full term of the loan, pursuant to § 1026.24(d)(2)qi1).
Inadequate Disclosure of Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)()

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(2)(1), ifa direct-mail mortgage advertisement:

states a simple annual rate of interest and more than one
simple annual rate of interest will apply over the term of the
advertised loan, the advertisement shall disclose in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) Each simple annual rate of interest that will apply.
In variable-rate transactions, a rate determined by
adding an index and margin shall be disclosed based on

a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each simple
annual rate of interest will apply; and

(C) The [APR] for the loan. If such rate is variable, the

[APR] shall comply with the accuracy standards in
§§ 1026.17(c) and 1026.22.

Sovereign violated § 1026.24(f)(2)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs
66-69, numerous Sovereign direct-mail mortgage advertisements for a loan
for which more than one simple annual interest rate would apply stated a

simple annual rate of interest but did not include one or more of the
AMAA RPM ANAM ~ . 4 ots moe gE o~ ma ~ =
2OOH Re RASA Miners t fF Clad OP IOA PAH Mawes Bet at Ae
Sew ke bg WA a? RARE EAD EE od POPS PP eo PU SARIS 2b kb ow

disclosures required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(2)(1)(A) through (C), or did not

disclose them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(2)(i1).
Inadequate Disclosure of Payment Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)

80. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(f)(3)(1), a direct-mail mortgage advertisement
that “states the amount of any payment” must disclose, in a clear and
conspicuous manner:

(A) The amount of each payment that will apply over the term
of the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be

disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;

(B) The period of time during which each payment will apply;
and

(C) In an advertisement for credit secured by a first lien on a
dwelling, the fact that the payments do not include amounts

for taxes and insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the
actual payment obligation will be greater.

81. Sovereign violated § 1026.24(f)(3)() because, as described in Paragraphs
70-71, numerous Sovereign direct-mail mortgage advertisements stated the
amount of a payment but did not include one or more of the disclosures
required pursuant to § 1026.24(f)(3)(i)(A) through (C), or did not disclose

them clearly and conspicuously, as defined in § 1026.24(f)(3)(i1).
AMA rer AnaAr Pe aud A Pe at SPP FO Py ew ewe £re
POOR E DLA Mie issycinmt 4 Clan AYPpPealrenen Dineen OO At AG
aXe eM ee be ta RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od Pits PP reo eau 3 She a0 Ld at

Misleading Use of the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(1)

82. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(1), mortgage advertisements may not:

Us[e] the word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the
credit transaction in an advertisement for variable-rate
transactions or other transactions where the payment will
increase, unless:

(i) In the case of an advertisement solely for one or more
variable-rate transactions,

(A) The phrase “Adjustable-Rate Mortgage,”
“Variable-Rate Mortgage,” or “ARM” appears in the
advertisement before the first use of the word “fixed”

and is at least as conspicuous as any use of the word
“fixed” in the advertisement; and

(B) Each use of the word “fixed” to refer to a rate or
payment is accompanied by an equally prominent and
closely proximate statement of the time period for
which the rate or payment is fixed, and the fact that the

rate may vary or the payment may increase after that
period....

83. Sovereign violated § 1026.24(1)(1) because, as described in Paragraphs 35-
38, numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements for variable-rate
transactions used the word “fixed” to refer to rates, payments, or the credit

transaction and did not comply with the requirements of § 1026.24()(1)().
Misleading Use of the Current Lender’s Name, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(i)(4)

84. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24(1)(4), mortgage advertisements may not:

Us[e] the name of the consumer’s current lender in an
85.

86.

AAA FA Ame oa . oA pay »
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilae } APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot Pe Pian y cao oe or a
on at ot Pt Fe BA AEN Pa PPA ThA

advertisement that is not sent by or on behalf of the
consumer’s current lender, unless the advertisement:

(1) Discloses with equal prominence the name of the
person or creditor making the advertisement; and

(ii) Includes a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement is not associated

with, or acting on behalf of, the consumer’s current
lender.

Sovereign violated § 1026.24(1)(4) because, as described in Paragraphs 72-
73, numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements, which were not sent by
or on behalf of the consumer’s current lender, used the name of the
consumer’s current lender and did not: (1) disclose with equal prominence
the name of the person or creditor making the advertisement, as required by
§ 1026.24(1)(4)(); or (2) include a clear and conspicuous statement that the
person making the advertisement was not associated with, or acting on
behalf of, the consumer’s current lender, as required by § 1026.24(1)(4)(il1).

VIOLATIONS OF THE MAP RULE (REGULATION N)
Misrepresentations About Rates, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(b), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he annual

percentage rate, simple annual rate, periodic rate, or any other rate”
87.

88.

89.

ARAM PAE AM AE oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

applicable to a mortgage credit product. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a
misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Sovereign violated § 1014.3(b) because, as described in Paragraphs 27-31,
numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations

about the APR applicable to a mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations Using the Word “Fixed,” 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(g), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he
variability of interest, payments, or other terms of the mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to misrepresentations using the word
‘fixed.’” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Sovereign violated § 1014.3(g) because, as described in Paragraphs 35-36,
numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the variability of interest, payments, or other terms of a mortgage by

using the word “fixed” to describe a variable-rate mortgage credit product.
90.

91.

92.

ARAM PAE AM AE oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

Misrepresentations About Cash Available,
12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(j)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|[t]he existence,
nature, or amount of cash or credit available to the consumer in connection
with the mortgage credit product, including but not limited to
misrepresentations that the consumer will receive a certain amount of cash
or credit as part of a mortgage credit transaction.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3,
such a misrepresentation is specifically prohibited and is therefore material.
Sovereign violated § 1014.3(]) because, as described in Paragraphs 32-34,
numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the existence, nature, or amount of cash available to the consumer in
connection with the mortgage credit product, including misrepresentations
that the consumer would receive a certain amount of cash as part of a

mortgage credit transaction.
Misrepresentations About Payments, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(k), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly

or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “|[t]he existence,
ARAN SAP R ANA ~ Ld erty ot
POOL RE DLOANAS Paciiyent 4 Riad OP fOA Pe aen
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE ce BAAS PEASE Ed bites Sr ge

number, amount, or timing of any minimum or required payments, including
but not limited to misrepresentations about any payments or that no
payments are required in a reverse mortgage or other mortgage credit
product.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

93. Sovereign violated § 1014.3(k) because, as described in Paragraphs 32-34,
numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the payments that would be required in connection with the advertised

mortgage credit product.
Misrepresentations About Government Affiliation, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n)

94. Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(n), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about:

the association of the mortgage credit product or any provider
of such product with any other person or program, including
but not limited to misrepresentations that:

(1) The provider is, or is affiliated with, any
governmental entity or other organization; or

(2) The product is or relates to a government benefit, or
is endorsed, sponsored by, or affiliated with any
government or other program, including but not limited
to through the use of formats, symbols, or logos that
resemble those of such entity, organization, or
program.
95.

96.

ARAN RAS ANAS ~ . 4 ores os
SOOO BER AAAS Mie issycinmt 4 Clad OP IOA PAH
SSP eM tat BP ASLP PERG Gk og Pits a

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically
prohibited and is therefore material.

Sovereign violated § 1014.3(n) because, as described in Paragraphs 49-52,
numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
that the provider of the advertised mortgage credit product was affiliated
with the government or that the product related to a federal tax benefit, or
was endorsed by, sponsored by, or affiliated with the IRS, through the use of
certain phrases as well as formats, symbols, or logos that resemble those of
the IRS.

Misrepresentations About Consumer’s
Ability to Obtain Credit Terms, 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(q)

Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3(q), it is a violation for any person subject to the
MAP Rule to make any misrepresentation, directly or indirectly, expressly
or by implication, in any commercial communication, about “[t]he
consumer’s ability or likelihood to obtain any mortgage credit product or
term, including but not limited to misrepresentations concerning whether the
consumer has been preapproved or guaranteed for any such product or
term.” Under 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3, such a misrepresentation is specifically

prohibited and is therefore material.
97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

SAA eee rT AAR Pree ey ceed of Cuaad Pre Af
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot Pr PLEAY tag
on at te PE at te AEN Ed Pits

Sovereign violated § 1014.3(q) because, as described in Paragraphs 41-46,
numerous Sovereign mortgage advertisements contained misrepresentations
about the consumer’s ability or likelihood to obtain the advertised mortgage
credit product or term.

VIOLATIONS OF THE CFPA

Under the CFPA, it is unlawful for any covered person or service provider to
engage in a deceptive act or practice in connection with any transaction with
a consumer for a consumer-financial product or service, or the offering of a
consumer-financial product or service. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
An act or practice is deceptive if it involves a material misrepresentation or
omission that is likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Information that is likely to affect a consumer’s choice of, or conduct

regarding, a product or service is material to consumers.
Deceptive Representations About Credit Terms

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 23-36 and 39-40,
Sovereign’s mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by
implication, that specific credit terms were available or would be arranged or
offered by the creditor, including representations about specific APRs,

payment amounts, or the variable or fixed nature of rates or payments, when
2020-BCFP-0005 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 29 of 56

in fact those specific credit terms were not available or were not terms that
Sovereign was actually prepared to arrange or offer.

102. Sovereign’s misrepresentations about the availability of the advertised credit
terms of the advertised mortgage were likely to mislead consumers acting
reasonably under the circumstances.

103. Sovereign’s misrepresentations about the credit terms of the advertised
mortgage were material because they were likely to affect the conduct or
decisions of consumers.

104. Therefore, Sovereign engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of
the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About Consumers’
Ability or Likelihood to Obtain the Advertised Mortgage or Credit Term

105. In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 41-48, Sovereign’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
consumers who received the advertisements had been prequalified or
prescreened for the advertised mortgage based on information in their credit
report or that the credit terms stated in the advertisements were available to

borrowers with a “Low FICO Score.”
106.

107.

108.

109.

110.

111.

112.

2020-BCFP-0005 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 30 of 56

In fact, consumers who received these advertisements had not been selected
or screened for the advertised mortgage and were not able to obtain the
credit terms stated in the advertisements with a “Low FICO Score.”
Sovereign’s representations about prequalifying or prescreening consumers
and the availability of stated credit terms for consumers with a “Low FICO
Score” were likely to mislead consumers acting reasonably under the
circumstances.

Sovereign’s misrepresentations about prequalifying or prescreening
consumers and the availability of stated credit terms for consumers with a
“Low FICO Score” were material because they were likely to affect the
conduct or decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Sovereign engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
Deceptive Representations About Government Affiliation

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 49-54, Sovereign’s
mortgage advertisements represented, expressly or by implication, that
Sovereign was affiliated with the government.

In fact, Sovereign was not affiliated with the government.

Sovereign’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were likely to

mislead consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.
113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

119.

SAAN SAP AMAR Pe wun of Pk at .
POOR E DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bia § APOE
on Sf thn RP Ba LE tat BaP ASP ETA eR OT hives TP A eS

Sovereign’s misrepresentations about government affiliation were material
because they were likely to affect the conduct or decisions of consumers.
Therefore, Sovereign engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Deceptive Representations About Late Payments,
Rate Adjustments, and Payment Increases

In numerous instances, as described in Paragraphs 55-61, Sovereign’s
mortgage advertisements contained false statements that the consumer was
late on her loan payments and that there were unauthorized rate adjustments
or unnecessary payment increases on her loan.

These representations had no basis and were false for many consumers.
Sovereign’s misrepresentations about late payments, unauthorized rate
adjustments, and unnecessary payment increases were likely to mislead
consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances.

Sovereign’s misrepresentations about late payments, unauthorized rate
adjustments, and unnecessary payment increases were likely to influence the
conduct or decisions of consumers.

Therefore, Sovereign engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of

the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).
120.

121.

122.

AMAA RPM ANAM ~ . 4 ots moe gE ~~ — ~ =
2OOH Re RASA Mie issycinmt 4 Clad OP IOA PAH Merwe 2 anf Ae
Sew ke bg WA a? RARE EAD EE od PoP PP eo YP CALISS med ow?

Violations of the CFPA Based on Violations of
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule

Under the CFPA, a covered person’s violation of a Federal consumer
financial law, which includes enumerated consumer laws and rules
thereunder, violates the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5536(a)(1 (A), 5481(14).
Regulation Z and the MAP Rule are Federal consumer financial laws.
Sovereign’s violations of Regulation Z and the MAP Rule, described in
Paragraphs 74-97, constitute violations of § 1036(a)(1)(A) of the CFPA. 12

U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1)(A).

CONDUCT PROVISIONS

VI.
Mortgage Advertising Prohibitions and Disclosure Requirements

IT IS ORDERED, under §§ 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §8

5563, 5565, that:

123.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who
have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, may not violate 12 C.F.R. § 1014.3 and 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24

and in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or offering

for sale of any mortgage credit product, are restrained from:
my oy gre
faye} Rema eety TE ede Le
Seid ete Pe eit ot SS Of :

J Poe wt Oo GE OO

Misrepresenting, or assisting others in misrepresenting, expressly or

by implication:

Any fact material to consumers regarding a mortgage credit
product, including but not limited to the following: the total
costs; any material restrictions, limitations, or conditions; or
any material aspect of its performance, efficacy, nature, or
central characteristics; or

The availability of an advertised or offered mortgage to any
consumer; or whether the consumer was pre-selected or pre-

qualified for the advertised or offered mortgage;

Including or using any words, phrases, images, or design

characteristics that falsely state or imply that:

1.

The source of the advertisement is the government or the
consumer’s current lender or is affiliated with the government
or the consumer’s current lender; or

The advertisement is anything other than an advertisement for a

mortgage;

Including or using any of the following words, phrases, images, or

design characteristics:

1.

“Benefit announcement”
AAA PPAR Ame
SHO OL Beem Aas
Sa tet

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

a ~~ . oA pees LPN PR LPT my ~ A x -~
tis Miners t fF Cuaet PYRO APO Ae Mewes SA nt Ae
are Soak dP Ck aE PF ageay te : Pe Pisa} Se Poe wee , eat Poet ON RE 5
Ftd RPA TAS Pd SPs PPS. a a 5 Rage PE ,

“Eligibility advisory”
“Eligibility notice”
“Eligibility status”
“Expiration notice”
“Pending authorization”
“VA loan department”
“VA loan representative”
“VA loan specialist”
“VA program customer support”
“VA specialist”
“Waiting period”
The IRS signature year style (two digits in white or outlined
text and the other two digits in black text);
The format of an IRS form, including Form W-2, or a
substantially similar format; or
Any VA or United States Department of Defense (DOD) logo,
or a logo, emblem, or other representation that resembles—or
that a consumer could reasonably interpret as—a VA or DOD

logo;
124.

Aon Orem Amer Pena sat Pew at PYRE ,
POOR E DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Bian YP Poa hoanyen
on Sf thn RP Ba LE tat BaP ASP ETA eR OT hives TP A eS

d. Representing that a consumer has been “prequalified” or “preselected”
for any mortgage, unless (a) Respondent has, based on information
about the creditworthiness of the individual consumer to whom the
advertisement was addressed and all other relevant factors (which
may include, for example, the value of the potentially mortgaged
property and the consumer’s equity in that property), made a specific
determination that the consumer is likely to qualify for the advertised
mortgage under the precise terms stated in the advertisement; and (b)
Respondent maintains documentation of such determination; and

e. Stating the name of the consumer’s current or prior lender, unless the
current or prior lender is Sovereign, or unless stating the name of the
current or prior lender is otherwise required by law.

Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys who

have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, in connection with the advertising, marketing, promotion, or
offering for sale of any mortgage credit product, must take the following
affirmative actions:

a. Respondent must have prior substantiation for all express and implied

claims made in Respondent’s mortgage advertisements.
b.

AAA PPAR Ame
SHO OL Beem Aas
Sa tet

aN Miners t fF Clad OP IOA PAH
ia Mook ty ae EN ya Se FMS eS
ae BA AEN Pa Pits PE A eA

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement that states a cash-out
amount for a cash-out refinance mortgage and a monthly payment
amount only for the portion of that mortgage used to obtain that cash-
out amount, Respondent must disclose Clearly and Prominently: (1)
that obtaining the stated cash-out amount requires the consumer to
refinance the entire amount of the consumer’s existing mortgage with
a new loan purchased from Respondent, and (2) the total monthly
payment amount(s) for such a refinanced mortgage.

If Respondent screens or selects consumers to receive any direct-mail
mortgage advertisements based on consumers’ credit scores or credit
tiers, those advertisements may only contain specific credit terms that
are available to consumers with a credit score equal to or less than the
credit score or credit tier of the recipient consumers.

In any direct-mail mortgage advertisement, if the advertisement states
an interest rate or APR that is available only to consumers whose
credit scores are above a threshold number, that fact (including the
applicable credit score threshold) must be disclosed Clearly and
Prominently on the same side of the advertisement as the advertised

interest rate or APR.
eC.

AAA PPAR Ame
SHO OL Beem Aas
Sa tet

aN Miners t fF Clad OP IOA PAH
ia Mook ty ae EN ya Se FMS eS
ae BA AEN Pa Pits PE A eA

If a mortgage advertisement includes the amount or percentage of any

downpayment, the number of payments or period of repayment, the

amount of any payment, or the amount of any finance charge, the

advertisement must also include, at a minimum:

1.

2.

The amount or percentage of the downpayment;

The term of the loan in either months, years, or number of
monthly payments;

The amount of each payment that will apply over the term of
the loan, including any balloon payment. In variable-rate
transactions, payments that will be determined based on the
application of the sum of an index and margin shall be
disclosed based on a reasonably current index and margin;
The period during which each payment will apply;

The fact that the payments do not include amounts for taxes and
insurance premiums, if applicable, and that the actual payment
obligation will be greater;

The loan amount upon which the disclosures are based; and
The “annual percentage rate,” using that term, and, if the rate

may be increased after consummation, that fact.
2020-BCFP-0005 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 38 of 56

In any direct-mail advertisement for an adjustable rate mortgage,

Respondent must:

1. State, Clearly and Prominently, that the product is an
“adjustable rate mortgage,” using those words. The
advertisement may not use the term “hybrid” before the first use
of the phrase “adjustable rate mortgage”;

2. For each simple annual rate of interest disclosed that is based
on an index and margin, base the rate on an index value in
effect on the date of the advertisement or within 60 days prior,
and disclose the index and margin; and

3. State that more information about adjustable rate mortgages is

available at https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201401_cfpb_

 

booklet_charm.pdf.

 

Any disclosure in a direct-mail mortgage advertisement that must be
made with “equal prominence and in close proximity” under
Regulation Z, 12 C.F.R. § 1026.24, must be:

1. In the same type size as the advertised rates or payments

triggering the required disclosures;
PAAR FRR OA ae ~ . oA pansy »
SPP Bye spe Ss APA SL PP sey en meyyoaeed of YY cia rye e me ae er
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
an Mt an at Bat Naa ad te AEN Ed hae at TP a ea

2. Located immediately next to or directly above or below the
advertised rates or payments triggering the required disclosures,
without any intervening text or graphical displays; and

3. Otherwise compliant with Regulation Z, as applicable.

VIL.

Advertising Review

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

125. Respondent, whether acting directly or indirectly, must take the following
affirmative actions:

a. Respondent’s Advertising Compliance Official must review each
mortgage advertisement template before any advertisement based on
that template is disseminated to a consumer to ensure that it is
compliant with TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and
this Consent Order. This review must encompass any envelope or
mailer and all enclosures. This review includes reviewing all claims
made in the advertisement, expressly or by implication, to ensure that
they are accurate and substantiated.

b. Before any set of direct-mail advertisements based on a template is
mailed to consumers, the Advertising Compliance Official must

review an Exemplar of those advertisements—including any
ARAM PAE AM AE ~ cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

envelope, mailer, and enclosures—to ensure that it is compliant with
TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, the CFPA, and this Consent
Order. This includes reviewing all claims made in the advertisement,
expressly or by implication, to ensure that they are accurate and
substantiated. All specific credit terms stated in the Exemplar must be
available and based on a reasonably current index rate, if applicable,
at the time the advertisement is disseminated. This requirement
applies whether the set is mailed as a single set or in multiple sets or
subsets. It also applies whether the set is mailed out at a single time or
over a period.

The Advertising Compliance Official must document in writing his or
her review of each advertisement template or Exemplar. That
documentation must include a copy of the advertisement, the date of
the review, and documents sufficient to substantiate all claims made
in the advertisement, expressly or by implication. If the advertisement
includes specific rates, that documentation must also include a rate
sheet showing the availability of the advertised rate(s). If the
advertisement states an APR, that documentation must include a copy
of a worksheet showing the calculation of the APR, including all

inputs assumed when calculating that number. If the advertisement
126.

ARAM PAE AM AE ~ cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

states an amount of cash that a borrower might receive, the
documentation must state the method of arriving at that number and
include any materials used to determine the availability of that
amount.

d. The Advertising Compliance Official and any employees with
responsibilities related to designing, developing, or approving the
content of Respondent’s mortgage advertisements must participate in
annual training on TILA, Regulation Z, the MAP Rule, and the CFPA,
as those laws apply to mortgage advertising.

VIII.

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Enforcement Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
mortgage advertising complies with all applicable Federal consumer
financial laws and the terms of this Consent Order (Compliance Plan). The
Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent

Order; and
127.

128.

129.

AAA FA Ame oa cA pay Soe Ne ee on te ~~
320M Beem AAS Peek crescendo Cian PVP POA FOO Base A7D Af Be
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot Pr prea ro ie ae pe ef ES 2A Ey ye
Soe Ue SMI BaP AS SPEER Pkg PoP PPS. a a : a eR Madd ,

b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.

The Enforcement Director will have the discretion to make a determination
of non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct Respondent to revise it. If
the Enforcement Director directs Respondent to revise the Compliance Plan,
Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the Compliance Plan to
the Enforcement Director within 15 days.

After receiving notification that the Enforcement Director has made a
determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must
implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

MONETARY PROVISIONS
IX.

Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section V of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a

civil money penalty of $460,000 to the Bureau.
130.

131.

132.

133.

AAA FA Ame oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilae } APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot Pe Pian y cao oe or a
on at ot Pt ? BA AEN Pa PPA ThA

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil money
penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.
The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited in
the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by § 1017(d) of the CFPA,
12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).
Respondent, for all purposes, must treat the civil money penalty paid under
this Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government. Regardless of how
the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:
a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other tax
benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil
money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled to,
nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any compensatory
monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer Action because of the

civil money penalty paid in this action or because of any payment that the
134.

135.

ARAM PAE AM AE oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund. If the court in any Related
Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount of compensatory
monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on the civil money
penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that the Bureau makes
from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within 30 days after entry of
a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify the Bureau, and pay the
amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S. Treasury. Such a payment will
not be considered an additional civil money penalty and will not change the
amount of the civil money penalty imposed in this action.

X.

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date of
default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.
Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds paid
to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be

returned to Respondent.
136.

137.

138.

ARAN SPER ANAS PA ee emt PN A IY mo a Rk ER
eOS OR CE RLOOOS Pocument 7 Pidacd G7 feaAfeoeg Pane 45 af 56
Ba Sf tn ST et Ft RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POPPA AP Pei ee : Led Re PA Pt

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer-identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or settlement
in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the Enforcement
Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in writing. That
notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that Respondent paid
or is required to pay to consumers and describe the consumers or classes of

consumers to whom that redress has been or will be paid.

COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS
XI.
Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that would
result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or dissolution
of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or practices

subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or insolvency
139.

140.

141.

ARAN SMmPEMm ANS Py nt A Pe PP FAA So AM ER
POOR E DLA Pinaciirpaent 4 Plan OPPO AL ABN Bia “ER At AG
Sn 2 SP et Fat BP ASLP PERG Gk og yobs Pe FI eS 5 Lake SPA Ase Phat

proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in Respondent’s name or

address. Respondent must provide this notice, if practicable, at least 30 days

before the development, but in any case no later than 14 days after the
development.

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must:

a. Designate at least one telephone number and email, physical, and
postal addresses as points of contact, that the Bureau may use to
communicate with Respondent;

b. Identify all businesses for which Respondent is the majority owner, or
that Respondent directly or indirectly controls, by all of their names,
telephone numbers, and physical, postal, email, and Internet
addresses; and

C. Describe the activities of each such business, including the products
and services offered, and the means of advertising, marketing, and
sales.

Respondent must report any change in the information required to be

submitted under Paragraph 139 at least 30 days before the change or as soon

as practicable after the learning about the change, whichever is sooner.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after receiving

notice of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, Respondent must submit to
142.

AAA PPAR Ame
SHO OL Beem Aas
Sa tet

7 oa cA peers SO Ne EP my . ACP ces
fips Mees usyvened 4 Bethea FY SF eld Prewre: ms meyee 2b Nt Ay
Ft RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od Syst Ve Ps co : ghee SP Ge Pt

the Enforcement Director an accurate written compliance progress report

(Compliance Report) that has been approved by Respondent’s executive

officers, sworn to under penalty of perjury, which, at a minimum:

a.

Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order and describes in detail the manner and form in which
Respondent has complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph
of the Consent Order;
Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Compliance Plan;
Describes in detail any instances in which Respondent has not
complied with the Consent Order or Compliance Plan, with an
explanation of why any such instances occurred; and
Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under
Section XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII.

Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 7 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the

Enforcement Director an acknowledgment of receipt of this Consent Order,

sworn under penalty of perjury.
143.

144.

145.

146.

ARAN MPR Amar ~ a pry os
POOL RE DLOANAS Paciiyent 4 Puan FYPfoa!
Ba Sf tn ST et ce BAAS PEASE Ed piteka

Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to each of its board members (if any) and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.

For 5 years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of this
Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in structure
referred to in Section XI, any future board members and executive officers,
as well as to any managers, employees, service providers, or other agents
and representatives who will have responsibilities related to the subject
matter of the Consent Order before they assume their responsibilities.
Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging receipt
of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic signatures
comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7001 ef seq.,
within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy of this Consent
Order under this Section.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide the Bureau
with a list of all persons and their titles to whom this Consent Order was

delivered through that date under Paragraphs 143-44 and a copy of all signed
147.

ARAM PAE AM AE oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

and dated statements acknowledging receipt of this Consent Order under
Paragraph 145.
XIII.

Recordkeeping
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 12 C.F.R.
§ 1014.5, including but not limited to keeping, for a period of twenty-four
months from the last date Respondent made or disseminated the applicable
commercial communication regarding any term of any mortgage credit

product, the following evidence of compliance with the MAP Rule:

a. Copies of all materially different commercial communications as well
as sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials, regarding
any term of any mortgage credit product, that Respondent made or
disseminated during the relevant time period;

b. | Documents describing or evidencing all mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such mortgage credit product available to

consumers; and
148.

149.

150.

ARAN AAR AMA ~ a oo
2OOH Re RASA Miners t fF Puan APOE
SSP eM tat RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od Pits “rt ee

Cc. Documents describing or evidencing all additional products or
services (such as credit insurance or credit disability insurance) that
are or may be offered or provided with the mortgage credit products
available to consumers during the time period in which Respondent
made or disseminated each commercial communication regarding any
term of any mortgage credit product, including but not limited to the
names and terms of each such additional product or service available

to consumers.

Respondent must retain its mailing lists for direct-mail mortgage
advertisements disseminated within 5 years of the Effective Date for at least
5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must retain the documentation required by Paragraph 125(c) for

at least 5 years after dissemination of the advertisement.

Respondent must create or, if already created, must retain the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau;

b. Copies of all advertisements, websites, and other marketing materials,

including any such materials used by a third party on Respondent’s
151.

152.

153.

AAA FA Ame oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot Pe bier y soy ¢ cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

behalf; and
C. All consumer complaints and refund requests (whether received

directly or indirectly, such as through a third party), and any responses

to those complaints or requests.
Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 150 for at
least 5 years after creation of the record.
Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraphs 147-51
available to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIV.
Notices

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must
provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents
relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re
Sovereign Lending Group, Inc., File No. 2020-BCFP- 0005,” and send
them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and
contemporaneously by email to Enforcement _Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Assistant Director for Enforcement

Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

ATTENTION: Office of Enforcement

1700 G Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20552
154.

155.

156.

ARAM PAE AM AE oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

XV.

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 14 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau, Respondent
must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested non-
privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order, which
must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony related to
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements; or produce non-privileged documents related to requirements
of this Consent Order and Respondents’ compliance with those
requirements.
For purposes of this Section, the Bureau may communicate directly with
Respondent, unless Respondent retains counsel related to these
communications.
Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with those
requirements any employee or other person affiliated with Respondent who
has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed may have counsel

present.
APA PER AMA oa cA puss SR Ng Ee on es oe
2HOH_ BPE RAS Miners t fF Clad OP IOA PAH Maren A af Re
Sa tet Ft BP ASLP PERG Gk og POoEPROAS As PP os ee Y CALA wate Lael ?

157. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil

158.

159.

160.

investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory
process.
XVI.

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to reporting
requirements) by submitting a written request to the Enforcement Director.
The Enforcement Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Enforcement
Director must be in writing.

XVII.

Administrative Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent
the Bureau from taking any other action against Respondent, except as

described in Paragraph 161. Further, for the avoidance of doubt, the
161.

162.

163.

ARAM PAE AM AE oa cA puss .
SPAM ESS PE PR AP AL Payee cssscamd 4 Cilaet ori APY
eed bebe opr beta HD POUT PY eer ot PT PTeAP SY bs cao oe or a
hn Sad ate RP Bat tat RPA TAS Pd eke THe Ae

provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent any
other person or governmental agency from taking any action against
Respondent.

The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section V of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described in
this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent and its
affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or practice of
violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of violations or to
calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not preclude or affect
any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure compliance with the
Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations of the Consent Order.
This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under § 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563, and
expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

The requirements under Paragraphs 148-49 and 151-52 of this Consent

Order will terminate when the specified recordkeeping periods have expired.
164.

165.

166.

167.

ARAN RAPE ANAS PN oe a emt PN I meer whe
eOS OR CE RLOOOS Pocument 7 Pidecd G7 feaAfeoeg Pane AS of Af
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE ed BHAA Ed POPPA AS Pe : Lage ae OP

All other requirements under this Consent Order will terminate 5 years from
the Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such times, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be based
on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations that
are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of sale,
obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply with all
applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau. For
any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the maximum
amount of civil money penalties allowed under § 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the Bureau to enforce
this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau may serve
Respondent wherever Respondent may be found and Respondent may not
contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over Respondent.

This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the complete

agreement between the parties. The parties have made no promises,
2020-BCFP-0005 Document1 Filed 07/24/2020 Page 56 of 56

representations, or warranties other than what is contained in this Consent
Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order and the
accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

168. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing Respondent, its officers, or its employees to violate

any law, rule, or regulation.

na nh
IT IS SO ORDERED, this2U day of July, 2020.

 

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

56
