Release Number 7428-16
Se - : A a oi. )

  

August 16, 2016

CFTC Restricts Registration of Steven A. Cohen Based on Failure to Supervise

Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today announced that it filed a Notice of
Intent (Notice) to revoke, suspend, or place restrictions on the registration of Steven A. Cohen (Cohen) of Greenwich,
Connecticut. The CFTC simultaneously issued an Opinion and Order (CFTC Order) accepting Cohen’s Offer of Settlement
and settling the action. The CFTC Order immediately restricted Cohen's registration as an Associated Person (AP) of SAC
Capital Advisors, L.P. (SAC LP). Additionally, pursuant to the Order, Cohen agreed not to engage in any activity requiring
registration with the CFTC or to act as an officer or employee of any person registered or required to be registered with
the CFTC until at least December 31, 2017, contemporaneous with the restriction end date set forth in a Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) order of January 8, 2016 (SEC Order).

The CFTC Order finds that on January 8, 2016, the SEC entered an Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions Pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisors Act of 1940 (the SEC Order), in which the SEC found that
Cohen had “failed reasonably to supervise [an employee] with a view to preventing [that employee’s] violation of Section
10(b) of the [Securities] Exchange Act [of 1934] and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.” Cohen consented to the SEC Order, without
admitting or denying the findings therein. The SEC Order included a finding that Cohen ignored red flags, failed to take
prompt action to determine whether Matthew Martoma, a portfolio manager who reported to Cohen, was engaged in
unlawful insider trading conduct, and failed to take reasonable steps to prevent violations of the federal securities laws.
The CFTC’s Order finds that Cohen is subject to statutory disqualification from registration with the CFTC pursuant to
Sections 8a(3)(C) and 8a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act and restricts Cohen’s registration under the terms set forth
in the Order.

CFTC Division of Enforcement Staff members responsible for this matter include Michael P. Geiser, K. Brent Tomer, Lenel
Hickson, and Manal M. Sultan.

Media Contact
Dennis Holden
202-418-5088

Last Updated: August 16, 2016
