cf b Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Multiple States Enter into Settlement
with Nationstar Mortgage, LLC for Unlawful Servicing Practices

DEC 07, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) filed a
complaint and proposed stipulated judgment and order against Nationstar Mortgage, LLC,
which does business as Mr. Cooper (Nationstar). The Bureau’s action is part of a
coordinated effort between the Bureau, a multistate group of state attorneys general, and
state bank regulators. The Bureau alleges that Nationstar violated multiple Federal
consumer financial laws, causing substantial harm to the borrowers whose mortgage loans it
serviced, including distressed homeowners. Nationstar is one of the nation’s largest
mortgage servicers and the largest non-bank mortgage servicer in the United States. The
proposed judgment and order, if entered by the court, would require Nationstar to pay
approximately $73 million in redress to more than 40,000 harmed borrowers. It would also
require Nationstar to pay a $1.5 million civil penalty to the Bureau. Attorneys general from
all 50 states and the District of Columbia and bank regulators from 53 jurisdictions covering
48 states and Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia have also settled
with Nationstar today and their settlements are reflected in separate actions, concurrently
filed in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.

“Mortgage servicers are entrusted with handling significant financial transactions for millions
of Americans, including struggling homeowners. Nationstar broke that trust by engaging in
unfair and deceptive practices prohibited by the Consumer Financial Protection Act of

2010, as well as violations of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the
Homeowner's Protection Act,” said CFPB Director Kathleen L. Kraninger. “Today's action is
the culmination of a multi-year effort working with our state partners to investigate
Nationstar’s failings, which resulted in substantial consumer harm. We had a strong
partnership with our state counterparts in this case and | thank them for all their support in
this case.”

“This settlement demonstrates the crucial role of state financial services regulators in
ensuring that homeowners are protected as they obtain and pay down their mortgages—
especially homeowners who may be struggling with making their payments,” said Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation Secretary Deborah Hagan. “This
resolution demonstrates that a commitment to government coordination provides a path to
efficient, effective, and comprehensive outcomes for both consumers and for Mr. Cooper,
who will be held to the highest operational standards as it continues to provide mortgage
services across the nation.”

The Bureau’s and States’ proposed judgments and orders, if entered by the court, will yield
nearly $85 million in recoveries for consumers to date and over $6 million more in fees and
penalties. They are also part of a larger government effort, which also includes assistance
from the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) and
the United States Trustee Program, to address Nationstar’s alleged unlawful mortgage loan
servicing practices.

In its complaint, filed in federal district court in the District of Columbia, the Bureau alleges
that Nationstar engaged in unfair and deceptive acts and practices in violation of the
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, violated the Real Estate Settlement Procedures
Act (RESPA), and violated the Homeowner's Protection Act of 1998 (HPA). Specifically, the
Bureau alleges that between January 2012 and January 1, 2016, in numerous instances
Nationstar failed to identify loans on its systems that had pending loss-mitigation
applications or trial-modification plans, and as a result failed to honor borrowers’ loan
modification agreements. Nationstar allegedly foreclosed on borrowers to whom it had
promised it would not foreclose while their loss mitigation applications were pending.
Nationstar also allegedly improperly increased borrowers’ permanent, modified monthly
loan payments, mispresented to borrowers when they would be eligible to have their
private mortgage insurance premiums canceled, and failed to timely remove private
mortgage insurance from borrowers’ accounts. Nationstar allegedly failed to timely disburse
borrowers’ tax payments from their escrow accounts and failed to properly conduct escrow
analyses for borrowers during their Chapter 13 bankruptcy proceedings.

If entered by the court, Nationstar would be required to immediately set aside about $15.6
million to pay borrowers it has not remediated prior to the order's effective date and to
certify that it has already paid approximately $57.5 million in redress to other borrowers
affected by the conduct alleged in the complaint. The stipulated judgment and order would
also require Nationstar, among other things, to enhance its policies and processes including
with respect to handling consumer complaints and disputes, conducting escrow analyses
on borrowers’ accounts, transferring information during servicing transfers, offering loss
mitigation, and terminating borrowers’ private mortgage insurance.

To read the complaint click here:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_nationstar-mortgage-llc-dba-mr-
cooper_complaint_2020-12.pdf i (cfpb.gov/documents/9396/cfpb_nationstar-mortgage-ll
c-dba-mr-cooper_complaint_2020-12.pdf)

 

 

To read the proposed stipulated judgement and order click here:
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_nationstar-mortgage-llc-dba-mr-
cooper _stipulated-final-judgment-and-order_2020-12.pdf (cfpb.gov/documents/9397/cf
pb_nationstar-mortgage-llc-dba-mr-cooper_stipulated-final-judgment-and-order_2020-12.
pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)

 

An official website of the
United States government
