cf Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau

 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Sues Debt Settlement Company FDATR,
Inc., and Owners Dean Tucci and Kenneth Wayne Halverson

NOV 20, 2020

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) filed a
lawsuit against FDATR, Inc., and its owners, Dean Tucci and Kenneth Wayne Halverson. The
Bureau alleges that FDATR, Tucci, and Halverson violated the Telemarketing Sales Rule
(TSR) by engaging in deceptive and abusive telemarketing acts or practices and the
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA) through deceptive acts or practices.
FDATR was a corporation headquartered in Wood Dale, Illinois, that promised to provide
student-loan debt-relief and credit-repair services to consumers nationwide. Tucci and
Halverson both owned and managed FDATR, which was involuntarily dissolved in
September 2020. The Bureau's complaint, filed in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois, seeks injunctions against FDATR, Tucci, and Halverson, as well as
damages, redress to consumers, disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, and the imposition of
civil money penalties.

The Bureau specifically alleges that from 2011 through at least April 2019, the defendants
engaged in abusive telemarketing by requesting and taking payments from consumers for
debt-relief and credit-repair services before achieving the results it promised and before it
was legally allowed to do so under the TSR. The Bureau also alleges that during this same
period, the defendants used deception in violation of the TSR and CFPA to attract
consumers by misrepresenting material aspects of its student-loan debt-relief services. For
example, the defendants falsely represented that its services would reduce or eliminate
student-loan payments and improve credit scores. The Bureau further alleges that
defendants’ violations of the TSR constituted violations of the CFPA. In addition, the Bureau
alleges that Tucci and Halverson are individually liable under the TSR and CFPA because
they knew of, directed, and engaged in the violations described in the complaint and
substantially assisted FDATR.

The complaint is not a finding or ruling that the defendants have violated the law.

A copy of the complaint filed in federal district court in the Northern District of Illinois is
available at: https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_fdatr-inc-dean-tucci-and-
kenneth-wayne-halverson_complaint_2020-11.pdf WY (cfob.gov/documents/9349/cfpb_fdatr
-inc-dean-tucci-and-kenneth-wayne-halverson_complaint_2020-11.pdf)

 

 

tHE

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is a 21st century agency that helps
consumer finance markets work by making rules more effective, by consistently and fairly
enforcing those rules, and by empowering consumers to take more control over their
economic lives. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

 

 

PRESS INFORMATION

If you want to republish the article or have questions about the content, please contact the
press office.

Go to press resources page (cfpb.gov/about-us/newsroom/press-resources/)
 

An official website of the
United States government
