UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE

 

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission,

Plaintiff,

Maverick Asset Management, LLC,

Rodney Scott Phelps and
Jason T. Castenir,

Defendants.

 

CIVIL CASE NO.
FILED UNDER SEAL

ORDER GRANTING
PLAINTIFF'S EX PARTE
EMERGENCY MOTION FOR
STATUTORY RESTRAINING
ORDER, EXPEDITED
DISCOVERY, ORDER TO
SHOW CAUSE REGARDING
PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTION, AND OTHER
EQUITABL RELIEF

Plaintiff, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”), has

filed a Complaint for Permanent Injunction and Other Relief and moved, pursuant

to Section 6c(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (the “Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1(a)

(2012), for an ex parte statutory restraining order freezing assets, and ordering

Defendant to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not be issued. The

Court has considered the pleadings, declarations, exhibits, and memorandum filed

in support of the Commission’s request for a statutory restraining order, and finds

that:

1. This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and over the subject matter

of this action pursuant to Section 6c of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13a-1 (2012).

Case 3:15-cv-00828 Document il Filed 08/25/15 Page 1 of 15 Pageib # 498
2. Venue lies properly within this District pursuant to Section 6c(e) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. §13a-1(e) (2012).

3. There is good cause to believe that Maverick Asset Management,
LLC (“MAM”), Rodney Scott Phelps (“Phelps”) and Jason T. Castenir
(“Castenir”) (collectively, “Defendants”), have engaged in, are engaging in and are
about to engage in acts in violation of 7 U.S.C. §§ 6b(a)(1)(A)-(C), 60(1), 6m(1)
and 6k(2) (2012), and 17 C.F.R. §§ 4.20(b)-(c) (2014).

4. From approximately March 1, 2013 through the present (the
“Relevant Period”), Defendants Maverick Asset Management, LLC (“MAM”), by
and through its employees Rodney Scott Phelps (“Phelps”) and Jason T. Castenir
(“Castenir”), and Phelps and Castenir directly (collectively, “Defendants”)
defrauded at least two members of the public (“pool participants”) out of
approximately $1.2 million in connection with pooled investments in exchange-
traded commodity futures contracts. During the Relevant Period, Defendants
misappropriated over $800,000 of their pool participants’ funds, made material
misrepresentations and omissions to existing and prospective pool participants,
provided pool participants with false account statements, and operated the pool
illegally. There is good cause to believe that immediate and irreparable damage to
the Court’s ability to grant effective final relief for pool participants in the form of

monetary redress will occur from the sale, transfer, assignment, or other

2
Mase 3:15-cv-00828 Document il Filed O8/25/15 Page 2 of 15 PagelD & 499
disposition by Defendant of assets or records unless Defendants are immediately
restrained and enjoined by Order of the Court.

5. There is good cause for the Court to freeze assets owned, controlled,
managed, or held by or on behalf of, or for the benefit of Defendants, including
assets in accounts held by Maverick Investment Holdings, LLC (“MIH”).

6. There is good cause for entry of an order prohibiting Defendants, their
agents, servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and persons in active concert or
participation with Defendants, including any successor thereof, from destroying
records and/or denying agents of the Commission access to inspect and copy
records to ensure that Commission representatives have immediate and complete
access to those books and records.

7. There is good cause for the Plaintiff to conduct expedited discovery in
order to determine the full extent of Defendants’ alleged wrongdoing, locate
Defendants’ other pool participants, identify pool participant funds and other assets
of Defendants and clarify the source and whereabouts of various funds.

8. Absent the entry of this statutory restraining order, Defendants are
likely to dissipate or transfer assets and destroy business records.

9. This is a proper case for granting an ex parte statutory restraining

order to preserve the status quo, protect pool participants from loss and damage,

3
Mase 3:15-cv-00928 Document il Filed O5/25/15 Page 3 of 15 PagelD & 500
and enable the Commission to fulfill its statutory duties, therefore the Court orders
as follows: |
DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Order, the following definitions apply:

10. The term “assets” means any legal or equitable interest in, right to, or
claim to, any real or personal property, whether individually or jointly, directly or
indirectly controlled, and wherever located, including but not limited to: chattels,
goods, instruments, equipment, fixtures, general intangibles, effects, leaseholds
mail or other deliveries, inventory, checks, notes, accounts (including, but not
limited to, bank accounts and accounts at other financial institutions), credits,
receivables, lines of credit, contracts (including spot, futures, options, or swaps
contracts), insurance policies, and all cash, wherever located, whether in the United
States or outside the United States.

11. The term, “document” is Synonymous in meaning and equal in scope
to the usage of the term in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (“Fed. R. Civ. P.”)
34(a), and includes, but is not limited to, all writings or printed matter of any kind,
including without limitation: records, correspondence, memoranda, notes,
rolodexes, address books, diaries, statistics, e-mail, letters, telegrams, minutes,
contracts, reports, studies, checks, statements, receipts, returns, summaries,

pamphlets, books, prospectuses, interoffice or intra-office communications,

4
Case B:15-cy-00G28 Document ii Filed O8/25/15 Page dof 15 Pagel & 501
g g
telephone message slips, offers, notations of conversations, bulletins, drawings,
plans, computer printouts, computer input or output, teletypes, facsimiles, invoices,
worksheets, ledger books, books of accounts, and all drafts, alterations,
modifications, changes and amendments of any of the foregoing. The term
“document” also includes graphs, charts, photographs, phonographic record, audio
and video recordings, computer records, and other data compilations from which
information can be obtained or translated, if necessary, through detection devices
into reasonable usable form. The term “document” also refers to each and every
document in your actual or constructive possession, including but not limited to: (i)
all documents within your custody or control of any of your present or former
agents, employers, employees, partners, and (1i) all documents which you have a
legal or equitable right to obtain from another person. A draft or non-identical
copy is a separate document within the meaning of the term. A document also
includes the file and folder tabs associated with each original and copy.

12. “Defendants” refers to MAM, Phelps, Castenir, and any person
insofar as he or she is acting in the capacity of an officer, agent servant, employee,
or attorney of any Defendant and any person who receives actual notice of this
Order by personal service or otherwise insofar as he or she is acting in concert or

participation with any Defendant. Defendants also refers to any d/b/a, successor,

5
Mase 3:15-cv-00828 Document il Filed O8/25/15 Page 5 of 15 PagelD & 502
affiliate, subsidiary, or other entity owned, controlled, managed, or held by, on
behalf of, or for the benefit of MAM, Phelps or Castenir.
RELIEF GRANTED
I.

Asset Freeze Order Prohibiting the Transfer, Removal, Dissipation, and
Disposal of Assets

13. ITIS HEREBY ORDERED that Defendants and their agents,
servants, employees, assigns, attorneys, and persons in active concert or
participation with them, including any successor thereof, and persons in active
concert or participation with them, who receive actual notice of this Order by
personal service or otherwise, are immediately restrained and enjoined, except as
otherwise ordered by this Court, from directly or indirectly: transferring, selling,
alienating, liquidating, encumbering, pledging, leasing, loaning, assigning,
concealing, dissipating, converting, withdrawing, or otherwise disposing of any
assets, wherever located, including assets of MIH, LLC and including Defendants’
assets held outside the United States.

14. Defendants are restrained and enjoined from directly or indirectly
opening or causing to be opened any safe deposit boxes titled in the name of, or

subject to, access by any Defendant.

15. The assets affected by this Order shall include both existing assets and

assets acquired after the effective date of this Order.

6
Case B:i5-cy-00G28 Document ii Filed o8/25/15 Page 6 of 15 PagelO & 508
g g
I.
Directives to F inancial Institutions and Others

16. ITS FURTHER ORDERED that, pending further Order of this
Court, that any financial or brokerage institution, business entity, or person that
holds, controls, or maintains custody of any account or asset titled in the name of,
held for the benefit of, or otherwise under the control of Defendants, or has held,
controlled, or maintained custody of any such account or asset of Defendant at any
time since March 1, 2013 shall:

a. Prohibit Defendants and all other persons from withdrawing,
removing, assigning, transferring, pledging, encumbering,
disbursing, dissipating, converting, selling or otherwise
disposing of Defendants’ assets, except as directed by further
order of the Court;

b. Deny Defendants and all other persons access to any safe
deposit box that is: (a) owned, controlled, managed, or held by,
on behalf of, or for the benefit of any Defendant, either
individually or jointly; or (b) otherwise subject to access by
Defendants;

c. Provide the Commission, within five (5) business days of

receiving a copy of this Order, a statement setting forth: (a) the

7
Mase 3:15-cv-00928 Document il Filed O5/25/15 Page ? of 15 PagelD & 504
identification number of each and every account or asset
owned, controlled, managed, or held by, on behalf of, or for the
benefit of each Defendant, either individually or jointly; (b) the
balance of each such account, or a description of the nature and
value of such asset as of the close of business on the day on
which this Order is served, and, if the account or other asset has
been closed or removed, the date closed or removed, the total
funds removed in order to close the account, and the name of
the person or entity to whom such account or other asset was
remitted; and (c) the identification of any safe deposit box that
is either owned, controlled, managed, or held by, on behalf of,
or for the benefit of Defendants, either individually or jointly,
or is otherwise subject to access by any Defendant;

d. Upon request by the Commission, promptly provide the
Commission with copies of all records or other documentation
pertaining to such account or asset, including, but not limited
to, originals or copies of account applications, account
statements, signature cards, checks, drafts, deposit tickets,

transfers to and from the accounts, all other debit and credit

8
Mase 2:15-cv-00¢28 Document il Filed O8/25/15 Page 8 of 15 Pagel & 505
instruments or slips, currency transaction reports, 1099 forms,
and safe deposit box logs; and
e. Cooperate with all reasonable requests of the Commission
relating to implementation of this Order, including transferring
funds at the Commission’s direction and producing records
related to Defendants’ accounts.
TIL.
Maintenance of and Access to Business Records

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that:

17. Defendants and all persons or entities who receive notice of this Order
by personal service or otherwise, are restrained from directly or indirectly
destroying, mutilating, erasing, altering, concealing or disposing of, in any manner,
directly or indirectly, any documents that relate to the business practices or

business or personal finances of Defendants.

IV.
Bond Not Required of Plaintiff
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
18. As Plaintiff Commission is an agency of the United States of

~ America which has made a proper showing under Section 6c(b), 7 U.S.C.§ 13a-

9
Case B:i5-cy-00G28 Document ii Filed o8/25/15 Page Qof 15 Pagel & 506
g g
1(b) (2012), this restraining order is granted without bond. Accordingly, the
Commission need not post a bond.
V.
Inspection and Copying of Books and Records
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

19. Representatives of the Commission be immediately allowed to
inspect the books, records, and other documents of Defendants and their agents
including, but not limited to, paper documents, electronically stored information,
tape recordings, and computer discs, wherever they may be situated and whether
they are in the possession of Defendants or others, and to copy said documents,
data and records, either on or off the premises where they may be situated.

20. Defendants shall, within 24 hours after being served with this Order,
cause to be prepared and delivered to the Commission, a detailed and complete
schedule of all passwords and identification (ID) numbers for all websites and all
accounts at any bank, financial institution or brokerage firm (including any
introducing broker or futures commission merchant) operated by or to which
Defendants have access.

21. Defendants shall, within 24 hours after being served with this Order,
cause to be prepared and delivered to the Commission, a detailed and complete

schedule of all desk top computers, laptop computers and or mobile devices owned

10
Case 3:15-cv-00928 Document il Fed 08/25/15 Page TO ch 15 Pageib a: 507
and/or used by him in connection with their business. The schedules required by
this section shall include at a minimum the make, model and description of each,
along with the location, the name of the person primarily assigned to use the
computer and/or mobile communication device, and all passwords necessary to
access and use the software contained on the computer and/or mobile
communication device. The Commission shall be authorized to make an
electronic, digital or hard copy of all of the data contained on the computer(s)
and/or mobile communication device(s).
VI.
Service of Order
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

22. Copies of this Order may be served by any means, including facsimile
transmission, upon any financial institution or other entity or person that may have
possession, custody, or control of any documents or assets of Defendants, or that
may be subject to any provision of this Order.

23. Any person authorized by Fed. R. Civ. P. 4 may effect service of the
Summons, this Order and all other documents pertaining to this case. In addition,
Commission representatives Glenn Chernigoff, Michael Loconte, Rick Glaser and

representatives of the Federal Bureau of Investigation are specially appointed to

11
Case 3:15-cv-00928 Document il Fed 08/25/15 Page Dl cf 15 Pageib a: 508
effect service of the Summons, this Order and all other documents pertaining to
this case.

24. Representatives of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S.
Marshal Service are authorized to accompany and assist the Commission’s
representatives outside and inside Defendants’ premises, as well as secure the
premises, in the service and execution of this Order and to undertake such efforts
as are reasonably necessary to ensure that the Commission’s representatives have
an unimpeded right to inspect and copy books, records and documents as set forth
above.

vil.
Expedited Discovery
IT Is FURTHER ORDERED that:

25. Notwithstanding the prohibition upon discovery before the early
meeting of counsel pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(f), in accordance with Fed. R.
Civ. P. 26(d), the Commission is granted leave to conduct expedited discovery, at
any time after service of this Order, to take the deposition of and demand the
production of documents from any person or entity for the purpose of discovering
the nature, location, status, and extent of assets of Defendants, and the location of

documents reflecting the business transactions of Defendants; forty-eight (48)

hours' notice, personally, by facsimile or by electronic mail, shall be deemed

12
Case 3:15-cv-00928 Document il Fed 08/25/15 Page T2 cf 15 Pageib a: 509
sufficient for any such deposition and five (5) days’ notice, personally, by
facsimile or by electronic mail, shall be deemed sufficient for the production of
any such documents.

26. The Commission may conduct expedited discovery to enable the
Commission to fulfill its statutory duties and protect investors from further loss or
damage. This expedited discovery will allow the Commission to determine the full
extent of Defendants’ alleged wrongdoing (including, but not limited to, the
possible involvement of others), locate Defendants’ other poo! participants,
identify pool participant funds and other of the Assets, and clarify the sources of
various funds.

27. No deposition taken pursuant to this section shall count towards the
ten-deposition limit set forth in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 30(a)(2)(A)(1).

Vili.
Service on the Commission
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

28. Defendants shall comply with all electronic filing rules and
requirements of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee and
shall serve all pleadings, correspondence, notices required by this Order, and other
materials on the Commission by delivering a copy to Glenn Chernigoff, Trial

Attorney, Division of Enforcement, Commodity Futures Trading Commission,

13
Case 3:15-cv-00928 Documentil Filed O8/25/15 Page IS of 15 Pageip 4: 510
1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581, by electronic filing, e-mail,
personal delivery or courier service (such as Federal Express or United Parcel
Service) and not by regular mail due to potential delay resulting from heightened
security and decontamination procedures applicable to the Commission’s regular
mail.
IX.
Order to Show Cause
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

30. Defendants shall appear before this Court on the er day of
September, 2015, at J] ./<S; before the Honorable Kevin Stone ,
Courtroom A ¥¢2¢, at the United States Courthouse for the Middle District of
Tennessee, located at 801 Broadway, Nashville, Tennessee 37203 to respond to the
Commission’s Motion for a Preliminary Injunction.

31. Should any party wish to file a memorandum of law or other papers in
opposition to Plaintiff's Motion for a Preliminary Injunction, all papers shall be
served and filed on or before Led, Spl ow , 2015. Any reply papers
shall be served and filed on or before Fridn gk U , 2015. Service

of all papers shall be by electronic mail, facsimile, or personal service.

14
Case 3:15-cv-00928 Document il Fed 08/25/15 Page T4 of 15 PageiD a: 541
X.
Force and Effect
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
32. This Order shall remain in full force and effect until further order of

this Court, and that this Court retains jurisdiction of this matter for all purposes.

IT SO ORDERED, at Nashville, Tennessee on this OS ’ _ day of

ChegereD, 2015 at J) /7<~ (x\/p.m,

—T MTTEDSTATES DIST JUDGE

 

15
Case 3:15-cv-00928 Document il Fed 08/25/15 Page TS cf 15 PageiD a: 512
