 

(— RECEIVED CFTC >

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

Office of Proceedings
Proceedings Clerk

 

 

 

\ 8:04 am, May 25, ay,

In the Matter of:
Citibank, N.A.,, CFTC Docket No. 16-16

Respondent.

 

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTIONS 6(c) AND 6(d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I,

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
Citibank, N.A, “Respondent,” “Citibank,” or the “Bank”’) has violated the Commodity
Exchange Act (the “Act” or “CEA”) and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”), Therefore,
the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the
violations set forth herein, and to determine whether any order shall be issued imposing remedial

sanctions.
IL.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to the
entry and acknowledges service of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 6(c)
and 6(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and imposing Remedial Sanctions
(“Order”).

 

' Respondent consents to the entry of this Order and to the use of these findings in this proceeding and in any other
proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party; provided, however, that Respondent
does not consent to the use of the Offer, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission, other than in a proceeding in bankruptcy or to enforce the terms of this
Order. Nor does Respondent consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this
Order consented to in the Offer, by any other party in any other proceeding.

 
ILL.

The Commission finds the following:

A, Summary

Beginning in January 2007 and continuing through January 2012 (the “Relevant
Period”), Citibank, by and through certain of its traders, on multiple occasions attempted to
manipulate the U.S. Dollar International Swaps and Derivatives Association Fix (“USD
ISDAFIX” or the “benchmark’”), a leading global benchmark referenced in a range of interest
rate products, to benefit the Bank’s derivatives positions.

ISDAFIX rates and spreads are published daily and are meant to indicate the prevailing
mid-market rate, at a specific time of day, for the fixed leg of a standard fixed-for-floating
interest rate swap.” They are issued in several currencies. USD ISDAFIX rates and spreads are
published for various maturities of U.S. Dollar-denominated swaps, including 1-year to 10-years,
15-years, 20-years, and 30-years. The most widely used USD ISDAFIX rates and spreads, and
the ones at issue in this Order, are those that are intended to indicate the prevailing market rate as
of 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The 11:00 a.m. USD ISDAFIX rate is used for the cash settlement
of options on interest rate swaps, or swaptions, and as a valuation tool for certain other interest
rate products, including, for example, curve options.

During the Relevant Period, USD ISDAFIX was set each day in a process that began at
11:00 a.m, Eastern Time with the capture and recording of swap rates and spreads from a U.S.-
based unit of a leading interest rate swaps broking firm (“Swaps Broker”). Swaps Broker
disseminated rates and spreads captured in this snapshot as references to a panel of banks. These
reference rates and spreads (which were calculated using swap spread trade data from Swaps
Broker, U.S. Treasuries electronic trade data from Swaps Broker, and Eurodollar futures at or
around 11:00 a.m.) were disseminated by Swaps Broker to the panel banks. The panel banks
then made submissions to Swaps Broker. Each bank’s submission was supposed to reflect the
midpoint of where that dealer would itself offer and bid a swap to a dealer of good credit as of
11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Most banks on the panel, including Citibank, usually submitted Swaps
Broker’s reference rates and spreads as captured in the snapshot. As a result, after an averaging
of the submissions, the reference rates and spreads became the published USD ISDAFIX almost
every day.

However, on certain days on which Citibank had a trading position settling or resetting
against the USD ISDAFIX, Citibank attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by making false
submissions for Citibank as a panel bank to Swaps Broker, skewing the rates and spreads
submitted in the direction that could have moved the USD ISDAFIX setting to benefit the
Bank’s trading positions. A bank’s derivatives trading positions or profitability are not
legitimate or permissible factors on which to base submissions in connection with a benchmark.
Yet on multiple occasions during the Relevant Period, certain Citibank traders caused Citibank
to make USD ISDAFIX submissions higher or lower for the purpose of benefitting positions

 

* In 2014, the administration of ISDAFIX changed, and a new version of the benchmark is published under a
different name by a new administrator using a different methodology.

2

 
priced or valued against the benchmark, including swaption and curve option positions. On
these occasions, Citibank’s USD ISDAFIX submissions constituted false, misleading, or
knowingly inaccurate reports because they purported to reflect Citibank’s honest view of the
true costs of entering into a standard fixed-for-floating interest rate swap in particular tenors,
but in fact reflected traders’ desire to move USD ISDAFIX higher or lower in order to benefit
Citibank’s positions. These submissions were false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate
because they did not report where Citibank would itself bid or offer interest rate swaps to a
dealer of good credit absent a desire to manipulate USD ISDAFIX, but rather reflected prices
that were more favorable to the Bank on specific positions.

In addition, Citibank attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by bidding, offering, and
executing transactions in targeted interest rate products, including swap spreads and U.S.
Treasuries at or near the critical 11:00 a.m. fixing time, with the intent to affect the reference
rates and spreads captured by Swaps Broker that Swaps Broker disseminated to submitting
banks, and thereby to affect the published USD ISDAF (X.° On occasion, in conjunction with
Citibank’s attempts to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by bidding, offering, and executing
transactions in targeted interest rate products, Citibank attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX
by making false USD ISDAFIX submissions. As captured in electronic communications, a
Citibank trader boasted about “pushing out the isdafixing” or “push[ing]” the market, and
described a Citibank’s swaps trader as being “pretty good at it.” Citibank traders also described
USD ISDAFIX as being “suprising[ly] easy to push,” and explained the best way to “influence
the set.”

At least one Citibank customer observed trading around 11:00 a.m. and raised a question that
was relayed to a Citibank trader:

[H]ow is it that 10s30s has traded between 17.25 and 18.25 all morning but the
ISDA fixing is 17.00? [I]’ve brought this up to several people over the last few
months because the fix seems to go against us most of the time. [E]ach person
tells me that there is no manipulation by the traders; however, the

coincidence of us losing on everyone but one fixing , . . is starting to get old.

(Emphasis added.)

In the summer of 2010, Citibank traders circulated among themselves a news article
reporting on the widespread potential manipulation of USD ISDAFIX benchmarks by trading at
11:00 a.m. that included a quote from a broker stating that “[e]veryone plays with the number at
11, and it can be bedlam.” Citibank traders circulated the article among themselves by email
with comments like “GAME OVER” and “ouch... .” Upon receiving the article, one recipient
said, “oh jesus do I want to read this?,” in response to which a Citibank swaps trader wrote that
the article was “all about 11am isda fix.”

 

* There is evidence that Citibank on occasion also attempted to manipulate on-exchange Eurodollar futures at 11:00
a.m. to advantage its derivatives trading positions. As noted above, in the 1-year maturity, Swaps Broker used
Eurodollar futures yields at 11:00 a.m. to generate the reference rate sent to USD ISDAFIX submitting banks.

3

 
Citibank’s unlawful conduct involved multiple traders; moreover, at least one senior-
level individual overseeing certain of the Bank’s interest rates trading desks was aware of the
Bank’s improper trading activity during the Relevant Period.

oR RR OR

In accepting the Bank’s offer, the Commission recognizes Respondent’s cooperation with
the Division of Enforcement’s (the “Division’’) investigation in this matter. The Commission
notes that at the outset of the Division’s investigation, Citibank’s cooperation was not sufficient.
The Bank’s response to the Commission’s subpoena and initial document productions were
deficient in two respects. First, the Bank did not make productions as expeditiously as the
Division expected. Second, the Bank told the Division that certain misconduct did not occur at
the Bank. The Bank’s cooperation improved after the Division said that it expected the Bank to .
move more expeditiously, after which the Bank discovered and produced evidence showing that
the Bank’s initial statements about certain misconduct were incorrect. The Commission also
recognizes that Citibank took remedial action to improve internal controls and polices related to
ISDAFIX submissions.

B. Respondent

Citibank, N.A. is a national banking association with its main office in Sioux Falls,
South Dakota, and offices in, among other places, New York City. Citibank provides consumer
finance, investment banking, commercial banking, and other services. It became provisionally
registered with the Commission as a swap dealer on December 31, 2012.

Cc, Facts
1. USD ISDAFIX Setting

ISDAFIX rates and spreads are benchmarks that indicate prevailing market rates for
“nlain-vanilla” interest rate swaps.’ The 11:00 am. USD ISDAFIX was set during the Relevant
Period using a combination of swap spread trade data from Swaps Broker,’ U.S. Treasuries
electronic trade data from Swaps Broker, Eurodollar futures, and submissions from a panel of
swap dealer banks, including Citibank.

 

* The term “swap” is defined in CEA Section 1a(47). 7 U.S.C. § 1a(47) (2012). Here, a “plain-vanilla” interest rate
swap is generally an exchange of fixed payments for floating payments, wherein one party to a swap pays a fixed
rate on a set notional amount (the party who “pays fixed” is said to have “bought” the swap, or is “long” the swap)
and the other party pays a floating rate generally tied to three-month LIBOR (the party who “receives fixed” is said
to have “sold” the swap, or is “short” the swap). The “maturity” or “tenor” of a swap refers to the number of years
over which counterparties exchange payments.

° An interest rate swap spread trade consists of a fixed-for-floating interest rate swap and an offsetting trade in U.S.
Treasuries of the same tenor, which allows a party to hedge part of the interest rate risk associated with the fixed-
for-floating swap. The difference in basis points between the U.S. Treasury yield and the swap rate constitutes the
“spread” quoted in a spread trade. The party who “receives fixed” in a swap and sells U.S. Treasuries to hedge is
“short” spreads or has “sold” spreads, while a party who “pays fixed” in a swap and buys Treasuries to hedge is
“long” spreads or has “bought” spreads.

 
Swaps Broker’s medium-term USD swaps desk (“MTS Desk”) functioned much like a
traditional futures trading pit. Brokers on the desk sat (or stood) together and each serviced a
number of major swap dealer banks, to whom they were connected throughout the trading day
by direct phone lines and speaker boxes. The brokers communicated their clients’ bids and
offers by open outcry to the entire MTS Desk and all of the brokers simultaneously. Any client
could accept a bid or offer, Once a broker confirmed that a client was “hitting” a bid, “lifting”
an offer, or was otherwise “done” in a designated notional amount (either a minimum default
amount or a greater amount), the trade between the counterparties was executed and the
counterparties received a confirmation of the trade.

Swaps Broker published a live feed of transaction data for USD interest rate swap
spreads, swap rates, and U.S. Treasury yields and prices to an electronic screen, known as the
“19901 screen,” accessible through a subscription-based market news service. The 19901
screen reflected the levels at which those products were trading through the MTS Desk (for
swap spreads and swap rates) and Swaps Broker’s proprietary electronic bond trading platform
(for U.S. Treasuries). The 19901 screen is a reference used widely throughout the financial
industry by swap dealer banks, hedge funds, asset managers, businesses, and other participants
in interest rate markets. During the Relevant Period, levels displayed on the 19901 screen at
precisely 11:00 a.m. were critical because they were used to set USD ISDAFTX,

To set USD ISDAFIX rates for the 2-year through 30-year maturities, Swaps Broker first
generated reference rates and spreads from the snapshot of 11:00 a.m. screen prices, reflecting
either the last traded spread or the mid-point between the most recent executable bid and offer.
Swaps Broker’s reference rates, for all maturities except the 1-year, were the sum of the
reference spread and the 19901 screen’s U.S. Treasury yield in the corresponding maturity. To
generate the 1-year reference rate (for which there was no associated swap spread), Swaps
Broker utilized a combination of Eurodollar futures yields (based on trading on CME’s Globex
platform) and broker “sentiment,” which was intended to reflect prevailing rates for 1-year
swaps based on trading though Swaps Broker’s short-term swaps desk.

Minutes after the 11:00 a.m. snapshot of the 19901 was taken, Swaps Broker distributed
its reference rates and spreads to a panel of 14 or more contributing banks, which either accepted
and submitted the reference rates and spreads as their own or submitted adjusted levels. Each
bank, including Citibank, was expected to submit “the mean of where that dealer would itself
offer and bid a swap in the relevant maturity for a notional equivalent amount of US $50 million
or whatever amount is deemed market size in that currency for that tenor to an acknowledged
dealer of good credit in the swap market.”® Banks could change the prices for all rates and
spreads across all maturities in their submissions, or change any subset, including any single rate
or spread, Alternatively, a panel bank could make no submission at all. After a quorum of
contributing banks made their submissions, a calculation agent eliminated the highest and lowest
submissions (known as “topping and tailing”) and averaged the remaining submissions. The
submission and calculation process was generally completed in the half hour following 11:00

 

© See ISDAFIX, ISDA, https://web.archive. org/web/20 140209180 148/http:/;www2.isda. org/asset-classes/interest-
rates-derivatives/isdafix/ (last accessed April 20, 2016).

 
a.m., after which the results were accessible to the public through a subscription-based news
service,

In practice, most panel banks, often including Citibank, accepted Swaps Broker’s
reference rates and spreads as their default submissions. Thus after “topping and tailing,” Swaps
Broker’s reference rates and spreads usually became the final published USD ISDAFIX
benchmarks. However, as noted below, on multiple occasions during the Relevant Period,
Citibank submitted a rate or spread higher or lower than Swaps Broker’s reference rates or
spreads on certain days that Citibank had a derivatives position settling or resetting against USD
ISDAFIX in an attempt to benefit that derivatives position.

2. Citibank’s Role in USD ISDAFIX Setting

Throughout the Relevant Period, Citibank was one of the panel banks that submitted rates
and spreads for the determination of USD ISDAFIX. Middle office employees supporting
Citibank’s North American G10 Rates U.S. Dollar Swaps Desk (the “Swaps Desk”) made
Citibank’s daily USD ISDAFIX submissions. The Swaps Desk was a market-making desk that
traded, among other products, fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps. The Swaps Desk acted as
counterparty to external clients as well as internal Citibank desks in a variety of interest rate
swap transactions.

During the Relevant Period, Citibank did not have specific internal controls or
procedures, written or otherwise, regarding how USD ISDAFIX submissions should be
determined or monitored, ISDAFIX submitters received no formal training on making ISDAFIX
submissions, and the Bank did not require submissions to be documented during the Relevant
Period.

3. Citibank Positions with Exposure to USD ISDAFIX

Citibank traders had two primary reasons, discussed more fully below, to attempt to
manipulate USD ISDAFIX: (a) to maximize profit (or minimize loss) for the North American
G10 Rates USD Flow Options Desks (collectively, the ‘““Options Desk’) in connection with
cash settling swaptions; and (b) to maximize profit (or minimize loss) for the North American
G10 Rates U.S. Exotics Desk (“Exotics Desk’’) in connection with periodic payments (referred
to as “resets”’) associated with certain interest rate options, including curve options.

In addition to these two primary reasons, traders on the Swaps Desk had their own
reasons to attempt to manipulate USD ISDAFIX rates. From time to time, when the Options
Desk had a cash-settling swaption with an external counterparty, rather than carry the USD
ISDAFIX risk associated with that position, the Options Desk coordinated with the Swaps Desk
prior to 11:00 a.m. to “swap settle” the position (referred to herein as an “ISDAFIX Swap”),
thereby eliminating the Options Desk’s exposure to the USD ISDAFIX and transferring that
exposure from the Options to the Swaps Desk. By transferring its USD ISDAFIX risk to the
Swaps Desk, the Options Desk also provided the Swaps Desk an opportunity to benefit by
influencing the USD ISDAFIX benchmark when trading out of the ISDAFIX Swap. For
example, if the Swaps Desk knew that it would be receiving the fixed rate on the ISDAFIX
Swap at 11:00 a.m., the Swaps Desk could benefit by pushing the rate higher while trading out

6

 
of the ISDAFIX Swap. Conversely, if the Swaps Desk knew that it would be paying the fixed
rate on the ISDAFIX Swap at 11:00 a.m., the Swaps Desk could benefit by pushing the rate
lower while trading out of the ISDAFIX Swap.

a. Options Desk Swaption Cash Settlements

During the Relevant Period, Citibank’s Options Desk, in coordination with the Swaps
Desk, attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFTX in order to benefit derivatives positions, by
increasing their payments from counterparties or decreasing payments to counterparties in
cash-settled interest rate swaptions. A so-called “European swaption,” one of the primary
products traded by the Options Desk, is an option to enter into a plain-vanilla fixed-for-
floating interest rate swap, which must be exercised at 11:00 a.m. on a specified “expiry” date
in the future at a pre-agreed fixed “strike” rate. A swaption can be exercised by “physical”
delivery of the underlying swap or by cash settlement. A swaption that expired “‘in-the-
money” would usually physically settle. Swaption cash settlements denominated in U.S.
Dollars are typically calculated based on USD ISDAFIX rates according to a formula which
measures the difference between the relevant USD ISDAFIX rate on the expiry date and the
strike rate of the swaption.

Attempts to move USD ISDAFIX rates in Citibank’s favor, if successful, would hurt
the Bank’s counterparties in cash settlement, as well as any other market participants who had
positions referencing USD ISDAFIX on a given day that were directionally equivalent to
Citibank’s counterparty in the same maturity. A small movement of the benchmark higher or
lower (e.g., one basis point or less) could result in meaningful gain for the Bank on its
swaption cash settlements,

b. Exotics Desk Curve Options

During the Relevant Period, Citibank’s Exotics Desk, in coordination with other Citibank
desks including the Swaps Desk, attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX in order to benefit
certain derivatives positions (most commonly, curve options) by increasing payments from
counterparties, or decreasing payments to counterparties, in connection with periodic cash
payments, also referred to as option “resets.” With respect to curve options, reset payments are
generally calculated as the difference between (1) the spread between two tenors as set by the
USD ISDAFIX benchmark (the “USD ISDAFIX tenor-spread differential”) and (2) the pre-
agreed strike-spread of the option. The reset payment by the option writer to the option holder of
a linear “‘cap” curve option increases as the USD ISDAFIX tenor-spread differential exceeds the
pre-agreed strike. Conversely, the payment by the option writer to the option holder of a linear |
“floor” curve option increases to the extent that the USD ISDAFIX tenor-spread differential is
less than the pre-agreed strike rate. For “digital” (i.e., non-linear) options, the option holder
receives from the option writer a pre-determined payout if the USD ISDAFIX tenor-spread
differential exceeds the pre-agreed strike in the case of a cap, or if the USD ISDAFIX tenor-
spread differential is less than the pre-agreed strike in the case of a floor. However, unlike linear
curve options, for a digital option, the payment amount is fixed and does not depend on the
degree to which the USD ISDAFIX tenor-spread differential deviates from the pre-agreed strike.

 
Attempts on reset days to move the spread between the relevant USD ISDAFIX rates in
Citibank’s favor, if successful, would hurt the Bank’s counterparties as well as any other market
participants who had positions in the same spread in a direction consistent with Citibank’s
counterparty (as well as potentially other market participants who had positions linked to the
individual tenors comprising the USD ISDAFIX tenor-spread).

4, Means Employed in Attempts to Manipulate USD ISDAFIX

Certain Citibank options, exotics, and/or swaps traders understood and employed two
primary means in their attempts to manipulate USD ISDAFIX rates:

® First, by directing the relevant Citibank Swaps Desk’s middle office employees
responsible for making USD ISDAFIX submissions (the “Submitter” or
Submitters”) to submit rates and spreads higher or lower than the Submitters
otherwise would, certain Citibank traders attempted to affect the final published
USD ISDAFIX rates and spreads to benefit the Bank’s derivatives positions. One of
Citibank’s swaps traders, Swaps Trader 1, explained to another trader that “my
middle office [makes Citibank’s submissions] and unless we have an interest on any
particular day they pass [what Swaps Broker’s] mid reflects.”

® Second, certain Citibank traders bid, offered, and/or executed swap spreads and/or
U.S. Treasuries, (at times in one or both of these products) at or around 11:00 a.m. to
affect rates on the 19901 screen and thereby increase or decrease Swaps Broker’s
reference rates and spreads and influence the final published USD ISDAFIX.

Whichever the means employed, the goal was the same — to move USD ISDAFIX in the
direction that favored Citibank on specific trading positions at the expense of its
counterparties,

a. Citibank’s False, Misleading, or Knowingly Inaccurate Submissions

Citibank attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by making false, misleading, or
knowingly inaccurate submissions to Swaps Broker concerning swap rates and spreads.

On multiple occasions during the Relevant Period, Citibank submitted a rate or spread
higher or lower than Swaps Broker’s reference rates or spreads, On these occasions, certain
traders on the Options or Exotics Desks directed the relevant Submitters to submit a rate or
spread higher or lower than the reference rate or spread disseminated by Swaps Broker to panel
banks. Certain traders made requests to change particular submissions by several means,
including by: (i) walking over to the Submitters and making requests to change a particular tenor
verbally by asking, for example, to “bump it up” or “bump it down”; (ii) providing a Submitter
with a piece of paper with a note indicating a tenor and rate; and (iii) accessing a Submitter’s
computer directly and/or instructing the Submitter to click on toggle buttons to make changes to
the reference rate. The Submitters typically did not deviate from the reference rates and spreads
provided by Swaps Broker unless they were specifically directed to do so for a particular tenor
by a trader from the Options or Exotics Desks. Moreover, during the Relevant Period, Citibank

 
did not itself maintain any books and records reflecting the changed submissions or otherwise
have any controls around the submission process,

Although the options and exotics traders typically approached the Submitters in person
when directing them to change the Bank’s submissions, on at least one occasion, an options
trader directed by email that a Submitter change the Bank’s submission, At 11:07 a.m. on
August 15, 2008, Options Trader 1 emailed a Submitter: “What is the 2y ISDAFIX you are
seeing|?|” When the Submitter responded “3,381,” Options Trader 1 replied, “[c]an you send
3.383.” On that same day, Citibank had a cash settlement in a 2-year swaption with a notional
value of $250 million, and Citibank’s payment to its counterparty in connection with that cash
settlement would have decreased to the extent the 2-year USD ISDAFIX benchmark rate set
higher.

Citibank’s changes in its USD ISDAFIX submissions were not made to reflect the mean
of where Citibank would itself bid or offer the swap in the relevant maturity but rather, the
changes were made to benefit certain derivatives positions held by Citibank. Indeed, Citibank
traders requested submissions that deviated from Swaps Broker’s reference rates and spreads on
certain days when they had an interest (i.e., if Citibank had a cash-settling swaption, curve
option reset, or other derivatives position tied to USD ISDAFIX). As noted, when asked by
another trader “who’s submitting the isdafix numbers these days,” Swaps Trader | responded
that Citibank’s practice was as follows: “believe my middle office does and unless we have an
interest on any particular day they pass [what Swaps Broker’s] mid reflects.”” Moreover, a
senior trader on the Options Desk, Options Trader 2, testified under oath that he was not aware
of any legitimate reason for a trader to make such changes. Nevertheless, Options Trader 2, as
well as other of the Bank’s options traders, directed the Submitters to submit lower or higher
rates and spreads in an effort to benefit certain of Citibank’s derivatives trading positions, and
the Submitters made the requested changes to the submissions,

b. Citibank’s Improper Trading Conduct

In addition to making false submissions in an effort to influence the final setting of USD
ISDAFIX benchmarks, Citibank on multiple occasions attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX
by bidding, offering, or trading swap spreads and U.S. Treasuries at and around Swaps Broker’s
11:00 a.m. snapshot, in a manner designed to move USD ISDAFIX rates in a direction that
would benefit the Bank.’ Moreover, the false submissions by Citibank’s traders, among other
factors, evidenced an intent to manipulate the USD ISDAFIX benchmark via trading.

Citibank’s traders knew that trading swap spreads and U.S. Treasuries at or around
Swaps Broker’s 11:00 a.m. snapshot could impact where the USD ISDAFIX benchmark set.

 

” Citibank traders referred to trades that they made around 11:00 a.m, for risk management purposes as hedging.
When swaptions cash-settled, changes in the Options Desk’s risk position could potentially require traders to
execute hedging trades, depending on a variety of factors, including the risk profile of other positions and whether
the desk wanted to take on the risk resulting from a cash settlement at expiry. Likewise, with curve option resets and
settlements, and ISDAFIX Swaps, the Exotics and Swaps Desks took on risk, which again, depending on a variety
of factors, the desks might have reason to hedge, Irrespective of whether the Options, Exotics, or Swaps Desk
traders had an interest in hedging, the traders engaged in attempted manipulation when they placed bids and offers
or executed trades around 11:00 a.m. with the improper intent to move the USD ISDAFIX rate in Citibank’s favor.

9

 
One of the Bank’s options traders, Options Trader 3, testified under oath that there was a
general understanding among traders on the Options Desk that trading swap spreads could
influence the USD ISDAFIX benchmark rate. Moreover, certain Citibank traders openly
discussed the fact that market participants attempted to influence the USD ISDAFIX benchmark
by trading at or around 11:00 a.m. For example, in a June 2007 email, in response to the
question of whether “there [is] a bit of gaming that goes on with the set,” one of the Bank’s
swaps traders, Swaps Trader 2, stated that “people are always messing with the screen at that
time [7.e., at 11:00 a.m.].” In a November 2007 instant message, when Swaps Trader 1
commented about market illiquidity, another Citibank trader stated “[I] suspect it’s because of
Isdafix ....[T]hat’s when people start scrooing [sic] around with things.” In another instant
message, Swaps Trader | told a Citibank trader that “we can help u in the screens if u need” in
connection with a “big” curve option reset, and later in that same message stated to another
Citibank trader that “on a daily basis we see dealers pushing the curve at 11am set and it is
obvious that it is big curve options settling.”

Citibank traders also talked about the fact that traders generally avoided trading through
Swaps Broker unless they wanted to move the market. For example, Swaps Trader | stated in a
2010 instant message, “‘that[’s] a weird one. [I] can see going to [Swaps Broker] when u need
the screen up or down but that one didnt [sic] move the screen.” Similarly, Options Trader 3
stated in an October 2011 instant message that “people don [sic] want to trade [at Swaps
Broker] because it moves [Swaps Broker’s] screen,” to which another trader responded: “hmm
so why does [Options Trader 2] go there?” In a 2008 instant message, one of the Bank’s exotics
traders, Exotics Trader 1, disparaged Swaps Broker as “icrap” after another trader said that “I
genu[ine]ely think people are stupid and look at [Swaps Broker’s] page.”

Moreover, Citibank had a general practice of encouraging traders to keep order flow
internal, i.e., to trade swaps and U.S. Treasuries internally through Citibank’s Swaps and
Treasuries Desks rather than externally through brokers, including Swaps Broker, Nevertheless,
when Citibank had a derivatives position that could benefit from influencing the USD ISDAFIX,
the Bank’s traders at times traded through Swaps Broker rather than internally or through other
brokers. For example, in January 2009, on a day that Citibank was cash settling a 10-year $200
million swaption (and in connection with which Citibank would receive a higher payment if the
10-year USD ISDAFIX settled lower), Options Trader 2 sent an instant message to Swaps Trader
1 stating: “I HAVE A CASH SETTLE AT 11 TODAY SOI WILL NEED TO BE IN [Swaps
Broker] BEFOREHAND AND WILL NEED TO SELL 10 YR SPREADS.” Selling 10-year
swap spreads at 11:00 a.m. through Swaps Broker would tend to drive the USD ISDAFIX lower,
whereas keeping that order flow internal would not affect the benchmark.

Citibank’s efforts to move Swaps Broker’s screen was openly discussed among certain
Citibank traders, including the then head of the Bank’s North American G10 interest rates
trading (“Head of G10 Rates 1”), who told Options Trader 2 that he, Options Trader 2, should
trade U.S. Treasuries through other traders at the Bank rather than directly through Swaps Broker
and that “[i]f they can’t do the job I would like to know. If you need to move the screen for a
pricing just let them know.” (Emphasis added.)

10

 
Traders also talked about pushing swap spreads and openly boasted about how easy it

was to influence the USD ISDAFIX benchmark by trading swap spreads and/or U.S. Treasuries
through Swaps Broker. For example:

On March 6, 2008, Exotics Trader | stated in separate instant messages to other market
participants that “[I] moved the screen btw” and “[I] moved the screen to 183 on
2810s...[/Swaps Trader 1] is pretty good at it,” and ‘“[I] push the 2s10s swap on the
sereen to 183.4, very proud of myself.” (Emphasis added.)

On April 9, 2008, Exotics Trader 1 sent an instant message to Swaps Trader 1: “I have
an isdafix on 10s2s today ... you think we can push the 2y spread lower before
11? [I]s the market much tougher to push these days?” (Emphasis added.) Swaps
Trader | replied: “ONLY PROBLEM IS MOST GUYS... ARE SHORT FRONT
END SPREADS SO YOU MAY HAVE RESISTANCE GETTING [it] DOWN. WE
CAN DO OUR BEST THOUGH.”

On October 23, 2008, Exotics Trader 1 notified Swaps Trader 1| that “[I] have a reset on
10s30s [referring to a digital curve option] today at 11. [I] might need you guys to help
me put 10s30s to reset below 0.” (Emphasis added.) In a later instant message, Exotics
Trader 1 told Swaps Trader | that “looks like [T] don’t even have to push!” Swaps Trader
1 agreed, noting that two other dealers were “pushing it for you...nice.”

On October 28, 2008, Exotics Trader 1 boasted that “[I] actually push the isdafixing on
the days when it’s close...surprising[ly] easy to push! [I] think last week, [I] pushed it
3bps from 10:55 to 11:05 :)” (Emphasis added.)

On November 18, 2008, Exotics Trader 1 indicated that he “sold 60[ ]bonds” (referring to
Treasuries) because he was “pushing out the isdafixing” and that he had “‘a big reset
today on a digital.” (Emphasis added.)

In a September 17, 2010 instant message conversation with a junior sales analyst,
Options Trader 3 explained a series of transactions in which the Options Desk (in
connection with large cash-settled swaptions) transferred its risk to the Swaps Desk at
ISDAFIX, thereby giving the Swaps Desk an opportunity to benefit by pushing up the
benchmark at or around 11:00 a.m. As Options Trader 3 explained, the Options Desk
“swap settled” with the Swaps Desk, and Swaps Trader 2 “took the risk... and made
[money].” After Options Trader 3 explained the transactions, the analyst wrote back that
Swaps Trader 2 “knows that hes [sic] gonna get long... @ 11[:00 a.m.]...so he can
pay to cut his risk ... and ideally pu sh [sic] the mkt up,” to which Options Trader 3
commented “u should pay for my lessons :-).”

Although certain Citibank traders believed that the best way to influence USD ISDAFIX

was to actually trade swap spreads and U.S. Treasuries,® the traders also understood that the

 

* Indeed, Swaps Trader | told another Citibank trader that “the best way to influence the set is to hit or lift 2s or
10s on spread [and that] it will be unlikely to have liquidity on 11am set.” (Emphasis added.)

1]

 
Bank could achieve the same goal — and at a lower cost — by bidding and offering or by
transacting in small sizes just before 11:00 a.m. For example, when Swaps Trader 2 observed
that exotics options traders at other banks “pushed the 30y spread down like crazy,” he told
others that “we started bidding ... in 30y spread and pushed it back up 4 bps w/out trading
anything,” (Emphasis added.) Likewise, Swaps Trader 2 expressed in another communication
that he could move the benchmark with minimal trading, stating that “it’s so illiquid. [A]t lL lam,
we moved spreads 2bps on 50mm only.” (Emphasis added.)

In the summer of 2010, certain Citibank traders circulated by email among themselves a
news article reporting on the potential manipulation of USD ISDAFIX benchmarks by trading at
11:00 a.m. Among other things, that article quoted one broker as saying that “[e]veryone plays
with the number at 11, and it can be bedlam.” The article was forwarded to, among others, the
head of the Bank’s North American G10 interest rates trading (“Head of G10 Rates 2”) as well
as to Swaps Trader 1. Swaps Trader | in turn forwarded the article in an email to Swaps Trader
2 as well as to Citibank’s broker at Swaps Broker, adding the comment “GAME OVER.”

Swaps Trader 2 forwarded the article to others at Citibank, with his own comment, “ouch... .”
When asked by one recipient, “oh jesus do I want to read this?,” Swaps Trader 2 commented
that the article was “all about | lam isda fix.”

Notwithstanding the summer 2010 news article (and Citibank traders’ own criticism of
Swaps Broker’s screen discussed above), Citibank nevertheless preferred to maintain the status
quo for how the USD ISDAFIX benchmarks were set because as a dealer with access to Swaps
Broker, the system worked to their advantage. In a December 2010 email, the ISDA Rates
Steering Committee, in response to the summer 2010 article “criticizing page 19901,” sought
industry feedback and commented that “[t]he feedback from [Swaps Broker] is that the market
values the current rates/spreads and the way in which they are generated [and] so believe
changing the process would be a bad idea. Firms are asked to revert to ISDA... with any
thoughts or opinions on this.” (Emphasis omitted.) The Head of G10 Rates 2 sent ISDA’s request
for feedback to Options Trader 2 and Swaps Trader | with the note that “this probably effects
[sic] you [7.e., Options Trader 2] more than [Swaps Trader 1]. [C]an you guys come up with a
firm view to send into ISDA?” Options Trader 2 responded that “[w]e have not had any
problems with the current process for setting the rates... . If anyone suggests a change that they
are considering we would like [to] comment on that change.”

5. Additional Examples of Attempts To Manipulate ISDAFTIX to Benefit
Citibank’s Derivatives Trading Positions

During the Relevant Period, Citibank’s traders used various means in attempts to
move USD ISDAFIX higher or lower to benefit their derivatives trading positions. Following
are additional specific examples of Citibank traders relating to their attempts to manipulate
USD ISDAFIX to benefit cash-settled swaptions or curve option positions,

e On January 16, 2007, Citibank had a cash settlement on a 1-year swaption with a notional
value of $1 billion; Citibank’s payment to its counterparty would be lower if the 1-year
USD ISDAFIX set lower. That same day, Options Trader 2 called Swaps Broker and
asked: “one-year rate, you guys publish, what affects that... how do you guys get that?

12

 
Do you just use the strip [7.e., Eurodollar futures] for that?,” and Citibank submitted its 1-
year rate lower than the reference rate that Swaps Broker disseminated to panel banks.

On December 7, 2007, Citibank had cash settlements on two 10-year swaptions with a
combined notional value of over $160 million; Citibank would receive higher payments
from its counterparties if the USD ISDAFIX benchmark set lower. At approximately
10:54 a.m., one broker at Swaps Broker sent an instant message to another broker at
Swaps Broker advising that Options Trader 2 is “SAYING HE HAS INTEREST I [sic]
THE SETTING TODAY IN 10’°S WANTS THEM LOW.” On that day, Citibank bought
10-year U.S. Treasuries through Swaps Broker before 11 a.m. and (through Options
Trader 2) sold swap spreads through Swaps Broker, both of which would have had a
downward impact on where the 10-year rate set. Citibank also submitted its 10-year rate
lower than the reference rate that Swaps Broker disseminated to panel banks.

On June 6, 2008, Exotics Trader | had a curve option resetting against USD ISDAFIX.
Exotics Trader | sent an instant message to Swaps Trader 1 before 11 a.m., stating that:
[I] have 125K 01 10s2s fixing [and] might need your help on the spreads. [I]s it easy to
push these days?” Swaps Trader 1 replied: “FEELS LICE IT NOW BUT YOU NEVER
KNOW WHAT OTHERS HAVE AROUND THE FIXINGS. I WILL BE HAPPY TO
HELP.” Exotics Trader 1 further instructed, “when it’s close [to] 11am, [I] might try to
lift the 2y spreads higher.[ ]Thanks.” Citibank sold 2-year U.S. Treasuries through Swaps
Broker before 11 a.m. and bought 2-year swap spreads through Swaps Broker, both of
which would have had an upward impact on where the 2-year rate set. Citibank also

submitted its 2-year rate higher than the rate that Swaps Broker disseminated to panel
banks.

As noted above, on November 18, 2008, Exotics Trader 1 stated to a trader at another
firm that he, Exotics Trader 1, “sold 60[ ]bonds” because he was “pushing out the
isdafixing” and that he had “a big reset today on a digital.” In the minutes leading up to
11:00 a.m., Citibank sold approximately 55 30-year U.S. Treasuries through Swaps
Broker, Citibank also submitted its 30-year rate higher than the rate that Swaps Broker
disseminated to panel banks,

On January 12, 2009, Citibank had a cash settlement on a 10-year swaption with a
notional value of $200 million; Citibank would receive a higher payment from its
counterparty if the 10-year USD ISDAFIX benchmark set lower. At approximately
10:33 a.m., Options Trader 2 notified Swaps Trader 1 that he, Options Trader 2, had a
cash settlement “AT 11 TODAY SO I WILL NEED TO BE IN [Swaps Broker]
BEFOREHAND AND WILL NEED TO SELL 10 YR SPREADS,” On that day, the
Bank (including Options Trader 2) bought 10-year U.S. Treasuries before 11 a.m. and
sold 10-year swap spreads through Swaps Broker, both of which would have had a
downward impact on where the 10-year rate set. Citibank also submitted its 10-year rate
lower than the reference rate that Swaps Broker disseminated to panel banks,

On January 29, 2009, Citibank had a cash settlement on a 10-year swaption with a
notional value of $200 million; Citibank would receive a higher payment from its

13

 
counterparty if the 10-year USD ISDAFIX benchmark set higher. At approximately
10:37 a.m., one of the options brokers at Swaps Broker told another broker at Swaps
Broker that “[Options Trader 2] at citi has an 11 oclock [sic] in 10yrs. [H]e is a payer
and i dont [sic] think he has alot [sic] of ammo.” Approximately six minutes later,
another individual at Swaps Broker relayed to another individual at Swaps Broker that
“citi [was] going to buy 10 up @ 1lam.” Citibank sold 10-year U.S. Treasuries through
Swaps Broker before 11 a.m. and (through Options Trader 2) bought 10-year swap
spreads through Swaps Broker, both of which would have had an upward impact on
where the 10-year rate set. Citibank also submitted its 10-year rate higher than the rate
that Swaps Broker disseminated to panel banks.

e On February 9, 2009, Citibank had a cash settlement on two 10-year swaptions with a
combined notional value of $550 million; Citibank would receive higher payments from
its counterparties if the 10-year USD ISDAFIX benchmark set higher, On the morning of
February 9, 2009, Options Trader 2 sent an instant message to Swaps Trader 2, stating
that “I AM GOING TO HAVE A CASH SETTLE LATER TODAY -- WILL GET ON
W/ [a broker at Swaps Broker] ABOUT IT IF THAT IS OK.” Swaps Trader 2 replied,
“sure, what do you need to do?” and Options Trader 2 responded, “I WILL BE PAYING
10S.” Citibank sold 10-year U.S. Treasuries through Swaps Broker before 11 a.m. and
(through Options Trader 2) bought 10-year swap spreads through Swaps Broker, both of
which would have had an upward impact on where the 10-year rate set. Citibank also
submitted its 10-year rate higher than the rate that Swaps Broker disseminated to panel
banks.

IV.
LEGAL DISCUSSION
A, Jurisdiction

As set forth below, Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act have long prohibited
attempted manipulation of the prices of, or false reporting in regard to, aay commodity in
interstate commerce or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity. 7
U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006). An interest rate benchmark, such as USD ISDAFIX, is a
commodity, see Sections 1a(9) and (19) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 1a(9), (19) (2012); see also 7
U.S.C. §§ 1a(4), (13) (2006), and therefore may be subject to illegal attempted manipulation,
whatever the manipulative means may be, or false reporting.

Here, Citibank’s attempted manipulation is also proscribed by the Act for the separate
reason that the conduct involved swaps executed or traded on a Swaps Broker desk that operated
in practice as a “trading facility” under the Act, see 7 U.S.C. § 1a(34) (2006) (defining trading
facility); 7 U.S.C. §§ 2(d)(1)(B), 2(g)(3) (2006) (limiting jurisdictional exclusions to
agreements, contracts, or transactions not executed or traded on a trading facility),

Lastly, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of
2010 (“Dodd-Frank Act”), the Commission also has authority to initiate proceedings and impose
sanctions for a broader range of manipulative conduct and false reporting, including in

14

 
connection with any swap. See Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act,
7 ULS.C. §§ 9(1), 9(1)(A), 93), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1 and 180.2, 17
C.F.R. §§ 180.1, 180.2 (2015), The Relevant Period encompasses conduct that occurred after
the passage and effective date of the Dodd-Frank Act.

B. Respondent Attempted to Manipulate USD ISDAFIX

Section 9(a)(2) of the Act makes it unlawful for “[a]ny person to manipulate or attempt
to manipulate the price of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or
subject to the rules of any registered entity.” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2006). With respect to conduct
on or after July 16, 2011, amended Section 9(a)(2) of the Act also makes it unlawful to
manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of “any swap.” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2012).

For conduct prior to August 15, 2011, Sections 6(c) and 6(d) of the Act authorize the
Commission to serve a complaint and provide for the imposition of, among other things, civil
monetary penalties and cease and desist orders if the Commission “has reason to believe that
any person... has manipulated or attempted to manipulate the market price of any commodity,
in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered
entity, ... or otherwise is violating or has violated any of the provisions of [the] Act.” 7 U.S.C,
§§ 9, 13b (2006).

For conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011, the Commission is authorized to
serve a complaint and impose penalties and orders with regard to attempted manipulation in
violation of the broader amended provisions of Sections 6(c)(1) and 6(c)(3) of the Act and the
Regulations implementing those provisions. See Sections 6(c)(4)(A) and 6(d) of the Act, 7
ULS.C. §§ 9(4)(A), 13b (2012).

Sections 6(c)(1) and 6(c)(1)(A) of the Act prohibit the use or attempted use of any
manipulative device, including false reporting, in connection with any swap or contract of sale of
any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(1)(A) (2012),
and Regulation 180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2015), makes it “unlawful... , directly or
indirectly, in connection with any swap, or contract of sale of any commodity in interstate
commerce, or contract for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, to...
(1) [uJse.... or attempt to use... any manipulative device; (2) [m]ake, or attempt to make, any
untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in
order to make the statements made not untrue or misleading; (3) [e]ngage, or attempt to engage,
in any act, practice, or course of business, which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon any person; or, (4) [d]eliver or cause to be delivered, or attempt to deliver or cause to be
delivered, for transmission through the mails or interstate commerce, .. . a false or misleading or
inaccurate report concerning ... market information or conditions that affect or tend to affect the
price of any commodity in interstate commerce.”

Section 6(c)(3) of the Act prohibits the attempted manipulation of the price of any
commodity in interstate commerce, 7 U.S.C, § 9(3) (2012), and Commission Regulation 180.2,
17 C.F_LR. § 180.2 (2015), makes it “unlawful ... directly or indirectly, to... attempt to
manipulate the price of any swap, or of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future
delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity.”

15

 
To prove attempted manipulation under each of these provisions, the following two
elements are required: (1) an intent to affect market price, and (2) an overt act in furtherance of
that intent. See In re Hohenberg Bros. Co. [1975-77 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep.
(CCH) ¢ 20,271, at 21,477 (CFTC Feb. 18, 1977). To prove the intent element of attempted
manipulation, the respondent must have “acted (or failed to act) with the purpose or conscious
object of causing or effecting a price or price trend in the market that did not reflect the
legitimate forces of supply and demand... .” In re Ind. Farm Bureau Coop. Ass’n, [1982-1984
Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) ¥ 21,796, at 27,283 (CFTC Dec. 17, 1982).

“TW hile knowledge of relevant market conditions is probative of intent, it is not necessary to
prove that the accused knew to any particular degree of certainty that his actions would create
an artificial price. It is enough to present evidence from which it may reasonably be inferred that
the accused ‘consciously desire[d] that result, whatever the likelihood of that result happening
from his conduct.’” Jd. (quoting United States v. U.S. Gypsum Co., 438 U.S. 442, 445 (1978)).
A profit motive may also be evidence of intent, although profit motive is not a necessary
element of an attempted manipulation. See In re DiPlacido [2007-2009 Transfer Binder] Comm.
Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 4 30,970, at 62,484 (CFTC Nov. 5, 2008) (citing In re Hohenberg Bros. Co.,
[19751977 Transfer Binder] Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) at 21,478)), aff'd sub. nom. DiPlacido
v. CFTC, 364 F. App’x 657 (2d Cir. 2009). It is also not necessary that there be an actual effect
on price. See CFTC v. Amaranth Advisors, L.L.C., 554 F. Supp. 2d 523, 533 (S.D.N.Y. 2008).

1. Respondent Attempted to Manipulate USD ISDAFIX Through False,
Misleading, or Knowingly Inaccurate Submissions

As evidenced by testimony of Citibank traders and others, Citibank’s USD ISDAFIX
submissions themselves, and certain electronic communications, certain Citibank traders
specifically intended to affect the rate at which USD ISDAFIX was set by making false,
misleading, or knowingly inaccurate submissions to Swaps Broker for inclusion in the
calculation of the daily rates, During the Relevant Period, Citibank submitted market
information, specifically rates that were supposed to reflect the mean of where Citibank would
itself offer and bid a USD denominated swap in the relevant maturity to an acknowledged
dealer of good credit, to Swaps Broker that were used as part of the process for determining the
daily USD ISDAFIX rate for the various maturities. However, rather than submitting rates and
spreads that reflected Citibank’s honest view of the true costs of entering into a standard USD
interest-rate swap in particular maturities, Citibank knowingly made submissions with the
intent to move USD ISDAFIX rates higher or lower in order to benefit Citibank’s trading
positions, Through its false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate submissions, Citibank
attempted to manipulate USD ISDAFIX for numerous tenors.

The Citibank traders’ oral and written requests for certain rates to be submitted which
would benefit their trading positions, and the submissions resulting from those requests,
constituted overt acts in furtherance of the traders’ intent to affect USD ISDAFIX. By doing so,
the Citibank traders engaged in acts of attempted manipulation in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d),
and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006). Additionally, with respect to conduct
occurring on or after August 15, 2011, the Citibank traders engaged in acts of attempted
manipulation in violation of Section 6(c)(3), 7 U.S.C. § 9(3) (2012), and Regulation 180.2, 17
C.F.R. § 180.2 (2015), and they used or attempted to use a manipulative device in violation of

16

 
Sections 6(c)(1) and 6(c)(I)(A), 7 U.S.C. $§ 9(1), 9(1)(A) (2012), and Regulation 180.1(a), 17
C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2015),

2. Respondent Attempted to Manipulate USD ISDAFIX Through
Improper Trading Conduct

As evidenced by the communications among certain Citibank traders and between
certain Citibank traders and their brokers, as well as certain trading conduct, Citibank traders
specifically intended to manipulate USD ISDAFIX by placing bids or offers or executing trades
in the moments leading into 11:00 a.m. designed in a manner, including timing and pricing, to
increase or decrease swap spreads and U.S. Treasuries at 11:00 a.m., with the intent to affect
levels reported on the 19901 screen and USD ISDAFIX fixings. Moreover, the evidence reflects
that certain traders intended such trading conduct to affect the fixings in order to benefit
Citibank’s trading positions against the Bank’s counterparties.

The Citibank traders’ bids, offers, and executed trades in the moments leading into 11:00
a.m., which were intended to affect USD ISDAFITX, as well as the traders’ communications with
each other and with their Swaps Broker brokers to plan and execute this trading conduct,
constituted overt acts in furtherance of their intent to affect USD ISDAFIX. The Citibank traders
thereby engaged in acts of attempted manipulation in violation of Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2)
of the Act, 7 U.S.C, §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006). Additionally, with respect to conduct occurring
on or after August 15, 2011, Citibank engaged in acts of attempted manipulation in violation of
Section 6(c)(3), 7 U.S.C. § 9(3) (2012), and Regulation 180.2, 17 C.F.R.§ 180.2 (2015), and it
used or attempted to use a manipulative device in violation of Sections 6(c)(1) and 6(c)(1)(A) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(1)(A) (2012), and Regulation 180.1(a), 17 C.F.R. § 180.1(a) (2015).

C. Respondent Made False, Misleading, or Knowingly Inaccurate Reports
Concerning USD ISDAFIX in Violation of Section 9(a)(2) of the Act

In addition to the prohibition on attempted manipulation contained in Section 9(a)(2) of
the Act, that provision also makes it unlawful for any person “knowingly to deliver or cause to
be delivered for transmission through the mails or interstate commerce by telegraph, telephone,
wireless, or other means of communication false or misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports
concerning crop or market information or conditions that affect or tend to affect the price of
any commodity in interstate commerce.” 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2006); see also United States v.
Brooks, 681 F.3d 678 (Sth Cir. 2012); United States v, Valencia, 394 F.3d 352 (Sth Cir, 2004);
CFTC vy. Johnson, 408 F. Supp. 2d 259, 267 (S.D, Tex. 2005).

During the Relevant Period, Citibank, through electronic and telephonic transmission of
information to Swaps Broker, on multiple occasions knowingly delivered or caused to be
delivered the Bank’s USD ISDAFTX submissions through the mails or interstate commerce.
Citibank’s submissions were also delivered through the mails or interstate commerce through
daily dissemination and publication globally, including throughout the United States, of the
official published rates for USD ISDAFIX, as determined by averaging the submissions of
Citibank and other panel banks after “topping and tailing.” Data on submissions themselves were
also disseminated, Citibank’s daily USD ISDAFIX submissions contained market information

17

 
concerning the mean of where Citibank would itself offer and bid a swap in the relevant maturity
to an acknowledged dealer of good credit in the swap market absent intent to manipulate USD
ISDAFIX. Such market information affected or tended to affect the prices of commodities in
interstate commerce, including the daily fixing rates for USD ISDAFIX, as well as the on-
exchange interest rate swap futures and other financial instruments which relied upon those rates.

During the Relevant Period, Citibank’s USD ISDAFIX submissions on multiple
occasions constituted false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate reports because they purported
to reflect Citibank’s honest view of the true costs of entering into a standard fixed-for-floating
interest rate swap in particular tenors, but in fact on multiple occasions reflected traders’ desire
to move USD ISDAFIX higher or lower in order to benefit their positions.

By using these impermissible factors in making its USD ISDAFIX submissions and
without disclosing that it based its submissions on these impermissible factors, Citibank
conveyed false, misleading, or knowingly inaccurate information that the rates it submitted were
based on the prices at which Citibank would offer and bid swaps to an acknowledged dealer of
good credit in the swaps market absent intent to manipulate USD ISDAFIX. Moreover, certain
Citibank traders knew that Citibank’s USD ISDAFIX submissions contained false, misleading,
or knowingly inaccurate information, By such conduct, Respondent violated Section 9(a)(2) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13(a)(2) (2006).

D. Respondent Is Liable for the Acts of Its Agents

Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(a)(1)(B) (2012), and Regulation 1,2, 17
C.F.R. § 1.2 (2015), provide that “[t]he act, omission, or failure of any official, agent, or other
person acting for any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust within the scope
of his employment or office shall be deemed the act, omission, or failure of such individual,
association, partnership, corporation, or trust.” Pursuant to Section 2(a)(1)(B) of the Act and
Commission Regulation 1.2, strict liability is imposed on principals for the actions of their
agents. See, e.g., Rosenthal & Co. v. CFTC, 802 F.2d 963, 966 (7th Cir. 1986); Dohmen-
Ramirez & Wellington Advisory, Inc. v. CFTC, 837 F.2d 847, 857-58 (9th Cir. 1988); CFTC vy.
Byrnes, 58 F, Supp. 3d 319, 324 (S.D.N.Y, 2014),

Citibank is liable for the acts, omissions, and failures of any traders, managers, and
Submitters who acted as its employees and/or agents in the conduct described above,
Accordingly, as set forth above, Citibank violated Sections 6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7
ULS.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006); Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1), 9(11)(A), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012); and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2,
17 C.FLR. §§ 180.1(a), 180.2 (2015).

V.

FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

 

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondent violated Sections 6(c),
6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006), and for conduct occurring on

18

 
or after August 15, 2011, Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7
U.S.C, §§ 9(1), 9C1)(A), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2, 17
C.F.R. §§ 180,1(a), 180.2 (2015).

VI.

OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent, without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions herein, has
submitted the Offer in which it:

A, Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to this Order only and for
any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based on
violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C, Waives:

1. the filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

2. a hearing;

3. all post-hearing procedures;

4. judicial review by any court;

5, any and all objections to the participation by any member of the
Commission’s staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

6. any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice
Act, 5 U.S.C, § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules
promulgated by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the
Commission’s Regulations, 17 C.F.R. §§ 148.1-30 (2015), relating to, or
arising from, this proceeding;

7. any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§
201-253, 110 Stat. 847, 857-868 (1996), as amended by Pub. L. No. 110-
28, § 8302, 121 Stat. 112, 204-205 (2007), relating to, or arising from, this
proceeding; and

8. any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding

or the entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary
penalty or any other relief;

19

 
Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist
solely of the findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has
consented in the Offer; and

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this
Order that:

I. makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Sections
6(c), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9, 13b, 13(a)(2) (2006), and
for conduct occurring on or after August 15, 2011, Sections 6(c)(1),
6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9€1),
9(1)(A), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2,
17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a), 180.2 (2015);

2, orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(1),
6(c)(1)(A), 6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. §§ 9(1),
9(1)(A), 9(3), 13b, 13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2,
17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a), 180.2 (2015);

3. orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of
two hundred fifty million U.S. dollars ($250,000,000) plus post-
judgment interest; and

4, orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the
conditions and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth
in Part VII of this Order.

Respondent represents that it has already undertaken certain steps intended to
make reasonable efforts to ensure the integrity of interest-rate swap
benchmarks, including, but not limited to, the following:

l, In October 2012, Respondent changed its USD ISDAFIX submissions
process to use Citibank’s live trading prices from the Swaps Desk as the
basis for submissions,

2. Respondent also provided guidance and training emphasizing the need to
prevent manipulation of benchmark rates and prohibiting improper
communications with submitters, Respondent continues to develop and
implement additional policies governing benchmark activity (including
policies related to interest-rate swap benchmarks),

3, Respondent has enhanced its oversight and governance over its benchmark
activity, including through the establishment of a Benchmark Steering
Committee to oversee a global review of Citibank’s controls surrounding
its participation in benchmarks (including interest-rate swap benchmarks)
and enhancements to those controls, As part of this review, Respondent
conducted an assessment of its participation in submissions-based

20

 
benchmark rates (including interest-rate swap benchmarks). Through this
process, Citibank exited a number of such benchmarks, including USD
ISDAFTX in January 2014 (until it transitioned to a new administrator and
methodology, as referenced in footnote 2 above, which captures
Citibank’s active trading as part of the calculation methodology).

4, Further, Respondent has been developing and implementing enhancements
to its controls surrounding its participation in benchmarks (including
interest-rate swap benchmarks), including, but not limited to:

a,

measures to strengthen electronic and oral communications
surveillance, including measures designed to detect
communications suggesting possible manipulation of benchmark
rates (including interest-rate swap benchmarks);

monitoring systems designed to detect and prevent potential
manipulation of benchmark rates (including interest-rate swap
benchmarks) through trading;

enhanced policies and procedures relating to ethical behavior and
prohibited conduct and escalation, as well as policies and
procedures providing for trading desk supervision of traders’
conduct related to interest-rate swap benchmarks;

training, at least annually, of all employees involved in
benchmark-rate related activity (including activity related to
interest-rate swap benchmarks) that includes training about what
constitutes prohibited submissions and/or trading practices (such as
manipulative trading) and the importance of escalating any
improper activity; and

the development of a central process for identifying, investigating,
escalating, documenting, and tracking discipline related to
suspected misconduct in benchmark activity (including activity
related to interest-rate swap benchmarks).

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer,

VIL.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A, Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Sections 6(c)(1), 6(c)(1)(A),
6(c)(3), 6(d), and 9(a)(2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. $§ 9(1), 9(1)(A), 9(3), 13b,

21

 
13(a)(2) (2012), and Regulations 180.1(a) and 180.2, 17 C.F.R. §§ 180.1(a),
180.2 (2015),

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty of two hundred fifty million U.S.
dollars ($250,000,000), within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order (the
“CMP Obligation”). If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten (10)
days of the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue
on the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be
determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this
Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012). Respondent shall pay the CMP
Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check,
bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is to be made other than
by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made payable to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement

ATTN: Accounts Receivables --- AMZ 340
E-mail Box: 9-AMC-AMZ-AR-CFTC
DOT/FAA/MMAC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.

Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Telephone: (405) 954-7262

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact
Nikki Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment
instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall
accompany payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the
Respondent and the name and docket number of this proceeding. The Respondent
shall simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment
to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three
Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following
undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1, REMEDIATION

As set forth above in Section VI, paragraph F, Respondent represents that it
has already undertaken and continues to undertake extensive remedial
measures to implement and strengthen its internal controls and procedures
relating to the fixing of interest-rate swaps benchmarks and related supervision
of its swaps, options, and exotics desks, With respect to its remediation efforts
to the extent not already undertaken, Respondent undertakes that:

22
Respondent will implement and improve its internal controls and
procedures in a manner reasonably designed to ensure the
integrity of the fixing of any interest-rate swap benchmark,
including measures to identify and address internal or external
conflicts of interest;

Respondent’s remediation improvements will include
internal controls and procedures relating to:

1. measures designed to enhance the detection and deterrence
of improper communications concerning interest-rate swap
benchmarks, including the form and manner in which
communications may occur;

2. monitoring systems designed to enhance the detection and
deterrence of trading or other conduct potentially intended
to manipulate directly or indirectly swap rates, including
benchmarks based on interest-rate swaps;

3. periodic audits, at least annually, of Respondent’s
participation in the fixing of any benchmark based on interest-
rate swaps;

4. supervision of trading desks that participate in the fixing of
any benchmark based on interest-rate swaps;

5. supervision of trading desk conduct that relates to any interest-
rate swap benchmark;

6. routine and on-going training of all traders, supervisors and
others who are involved in the fixing of any benchmark
based on interest-rate swaps;

7. routine and on-going training of all trading desk personnel
relating to the trading of any product that references a
benchmark based on interest-rate swaps;

8. processes for the periodic but routine review of written and oral
communications of any traders, supervisors and others who are
involved in the fixing of any benchmark based on interest-rate
swaps with the review being documented and documentation
being maintained for a period of three years; and

9. continuing to implement a system for reporting, handling and

investigating any suspected misconduct or questionable,
unusual or unlawful activity relating to the fixing of any

23
benchmark based on interest-rate swaps with escalation to
compliance and legal, and with reporting of material matters
to the executive management of Citibank and the Commission,
as appropriate; the Respondent shall maintain the record basis
of the handling of each such matter for a period of three years.

Within 120 days of the entry of this Order, the Respondent shall
make a report to the Commission, through the Division,
concerning its remediation efforts prior to and since the entry of
this Order. Within 365 days of the entry of this Order, the
Respondent shall submit a report to the Commission, through the
Division, explaining how it has complied with the undertakings
set forth herein. The report shall contain a certification from a
representative of the Respondent’s Executive Management, after
consultation with the Respondent’s chief compliance officer(s),
that the Respondent has complied with the undertakings set forth
above, and that it has established policies, procedures, and
controls to satisfy the undertakings set forth in the Order.

COOPERATION WITH THE COMMISSION

In this action, and in any investigation or other action instituted by the
Commission related to the subject matter of this action, Respondent shall
cooperate fully and expeditiously with the Commission, including the
Division. As part of such cooperation, Respondent agrees to the following
for a period of three (3) years from the date of the entry of this Order, or
until all related investigations and litigations in which the Commission,
including the Division, is a party, are concluded, including through the
appellate review process, whichever period is longer:

a.

Preserve all records relating to the subject matter of this
proceeding, including, but not limited to, audio files,
electronic mail, other documented communications, and
trading records;

Comply fully, promptly, completely, and truthfully with
all inquiries and requests for non-privileged information or
documents;

Provide authentication of documents and other
evidentiary material;

Provide copies of non-privileged documents within the Bank’s
possession, custody, or control;

24
e, Subject to applicable laws and regulations, make its best efforts to
produce any current (as of the time of the request) officer,
director, employee, or agent of the Bank, regardless of the
individual’s location, and at such location that minimizes
Commission travel expenditures, to provide assistance at any trial,
proceeding, or Commission investigation related to the subject
matter of this proceeding, including, but not limited to, requests
for testimony, depositions, and/or interviews, and to encourage
them to testify completely and truthfully in any such proceeding,
trial, or investigation; and

f. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, make its best efforts
to assist in locating and contacting any prior (as of the time of the
request) officer, director, employee, or agent of the Bank;

Respondent also agrees that it will not undertake any act that would limit
its ability to cooperate fully with the Commission. The Bank will
designate an agent located in the United States of America to receive all
requests for information pursuant to these Undertakings, and shall
provide notice regarding the identity of such Agent to the Division upon
entry of this Order. Should the Bank seek to change the designated agent
to receive such requests, notice of such intention shall be given to the
Division fourteen (14) days before it occurs. Any person designated to
receive such request shall be located in the United States of America.

PROHIBITED OR CONFLICTING UNDERTAKINGS

Should the Undertakings herein be prohibited by, or be contrary to, the
provisions of any obligations imposed on Respondent by any presently
existing, or hereinafter enacted or promulgated laws, rules, regulations, or
regulatory mandates, then Respondent shall promptly transmit notice to
the Commission (through the Division) of such prohibition or conflict, and
shall meet and confer in good faith with the Commission (through the
Division) to reach an agreement regarding possible modifications to the
Undertakings herein sufficient to resolve such inconsistent obligations. In
the interim, Respondent will abide by the obligations imposed by the laws,
rules, regulations, and regulatory mandates. Nothing in these Undertakings
shall limit, restrict or narrow any obligations pursuant to the Act or the
Commission’s Regulations promulgated thereunder, including, but not
limited to, Regulations 1.31 and 1.35, 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31, 1.35 (2015), in
effect now or in the future.

PUBLIC STATEMENTS

Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors and assigns,
agents, or employees under its authority or control shall take any action or

25

 
make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings or
conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression
that this Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing
in this provision shall affect Respondent’s (i) testimonial obligations, or
(ii) right to take positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is
not a party. Respondent and its successors and assigns shall undertake all
steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or employees under its
authority or control understand and comply with this agreement.

PARTIAL SATISFACTION

Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not
be deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to
this Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel
payment of any remaining balance.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Dated: May 25, 2016

              

   

Chris opher J, Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

26

 
