 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (~ RECEI
Before the “
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

 

 

Proceedings Clerk

\1 35 pm, Aug 31, 2017

 

 

In the Matter of:

Ikon Global Markets, Inc. CFTC Docket No. 17-23

Respondent.

 

Nee Ne ee ee ee “ee ee Nee “Nee”

ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

I.
INTRODUCTION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission’’) has reason to believe
that from in or about February 9, 2012, through the present (the “Relevant Period’’), Ikon Global
Markets, Inc. (“Ikon” or “Respondent” violated Section 4g(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act
(the “Act’’), 7 U.S.C. § 6g(a) (2012), and Commission Regulations (“Regulations”) 1.31(a)(1)
and (2) and 1.35(a), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31(a)(1), (2), 1.35(a) (2017). Therefore, the Commission
deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and
hereby are, instituted to determine whether Respondent engaged in the violations set forth
herein and to determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting or denying any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondent consents to
the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity
Exchange Act, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order’’) and acknowledges
service of this Order.’

 

' Respondent consents to the use of these findings and conclusions in this Order in this proceeding and

in any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant,
and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein, without
further proof.

Respondent does not consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as
the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party,

1
Il.
FINDINGS
The Commission finds the following:
. SUMMARY

During the Relevant Period, Ikon, through its agents, officers and/or employees, entered
into and reported to NASDAQ OMX Futures Exchange, Inc. (“NFX’’) thousands of gold
Exchange for Physical (““EFP”’) trades. Ikon failed to keep and promptly produce required
documentation for these trades, including orders, copies of confirmations, and statements of
purchase and sale in violation of Section 4g(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6g(a) (2012), and
Regulations 1.31(a)(1) and (2) and 1.35(a), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31(a)(1), (2), 1.35(a) (2017).

. RESPONDENT

Ikon Global Markets, Inc. is a futures commission merchant (“FCM”) incorporated and
with a business address in New York, New York. Ikon became registered with the Commission
and a member of the National Futures Association (“NFA”) in March 2003. In August 2013,
NFA barred Ikon from reapplying for membership.

. FACTS

From February 9, 2012, through September 12, 2012, Ikon, for a proprietary account,
entered into thousands of EFP transactions with one of its customers, which were reported to the
NFX (“EFP Transactions’). These EFP Transactions involved a privately negotiated and
simultaneous exchange of a position in the XAU/USD Spot Gold Futures contract (““NAU
contract”)” for a corresponding and offsetting cash position in gold. As an FCM, pursuant to
Section 4g of the Act and Regulation 1.35(a), Ikon was required to keep full, complete and
systematic records relevant to its dealings in the NAU contract and any related cash positions,
including all orders, copies of confirmations, and copies of statements of purchase and sale. On
March 18, 2015, the Division of Enforcement (“Division”), via a lawfully issued subpoena duces
tecum, requested that Ikon produce, for certain accounts including the Ikon proprietary account
and the relevant customer account, all documents related to transactions in the NAU contract,
including, among other things, all orders. In the subpoena, Division staff also requested all
documents reflecting any cash or other related position or the transfer of any cash or other related
position in connection with any off-exchange transactions related to the NAU contract (.e., the
EFP Transactions). On May 8, 2015, Ikon produced daily records reflecting the end of day

 

other than a: statutory disqualification proceeding; proceeding in bankruptcy, or receivership; or
proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order.

Also, Respondent does not consent to the use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in
this Order, by any other party in any other proceeding.

* The NAU contract was a cash-settled spot futures contract listed on the NFX; each contract was equal

to 10 Troy ounces of gold.
2
positions in NAU contracts but did not produce records relevant to the EFP Transactions or
other transactions involving the NAU contract.

On August 30, 2016, Division staff issued to Ikon a second subpoena which identified
seven specific EFP transactions and requested certain documents regarding those transactions.
On January 31, 2017, Ikon produced certain additional documents for those seven EFP
Transactions specifically identified by the Division in its second subpoena. However, its
production did not include certain documents requested by Division staff such as customer
orders, copies of confirmations, or copies of statements of purchase or sale. By letter dated
February 24, 2017, Division staff explained that, Ikon had failed to make a complete production
of all documents requested by staff. Division staff requested that all outstanding documents
requested be produced by no later than March 17, 2017. Ikon failed to produce further
documentation.

IT.
LEGAL DISCUSSION

Throughout the Relevant Period, Section 4g(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6g(a) (2012),
required, in relevant part, every FCM to keep books and records for a period of time specified
by the Commission and to make those books and records available for Commission inspection
upon request. Regulation 1.31(a)(1), 17 C.F.R. § 1.31(a)(1) (2017), specified that such books
and records must be kept for a period of five years. Pursuant to Regulation 1.35(a), 17 C.F.R.

§ 1.35(a) (2017), an FCM was required to keep full, complete, and systematic records of all
transactions relating to its business of dealing in commodity futures and cash commodities,
including, among other things, all orders, copies of confirmations, and copies of statements of
purchase and sale, and to produce such records to the Commission upon request.
Notwithstanding subsequent amendments to the regulation, these requirements continue to
apply. Regulation 1.35 (a)(1)() continues to require that an FCM keep full, complete, and
systematic records of all transactions relating to its business of dealing in commodity interests
and related cash transactions, including, among other things, all orders, copies of confirmations,
and copies of statements of purchase and sale. Regulation 1.35(a)(8) continues to require that
an FCM produce such records to the Commission upon request. Ikon either did not create or did
not retain, and did not produce all documents requested by the Commission related to the EFP
Transactions during the Relevant Period. These failures violated Section 4g(a) of the Act and
Regulations 1.31(a)(1) and 1.35(a).

Additionally, during the Relevant Period, Regulation 1.31(a)(2) provided that persons
required to keep books and records by the Act or by the Regulations shall provide those records
“promptly” to a Commission representative upon request. Ikon was unable to produce in a
timely manner the requested EFP documentation. This failure violated Regulation 1.31(a)(2).
IV.

FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, Ikon
violated Section 4g(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6g(a) (2012), and Regulations 1.31(a)(1) and (2)
and 1.35(a), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31(a)(1), (2), 1.35(a) (2017).

V.

OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it, without admitting or denying the
findings and conclusions herein:

A. Acknowledges receipt of service of this Order;

B. Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C. Waives:
1. The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;
2. A hearing;
3. All post-hearing procedures;

Judicial review by any court;

Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act,

5 U.S.C. § 504 (2012) and 28 U.S.C. § 2412 (2012), and/or the rules promulgated
by the Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Commission’s
Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt. 148 (2017), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, §§ 201-253, 110 Stat.
847, 857-874 (1996) (codified as amended in scattered sections of 5 U.S.C. and
15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding; and

Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
other relief;
D.

Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;

Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

1. Makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Section 4g(a) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6g(a) (2012), and Regulations 1.31(a)(1) and (2) and 1.35(a),
17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31(a)(1), (2), 1.35(a);

2. Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Section 4g(a) of the Act

and Regulations 1.31(a)(1) and (2) and 1.35(a);

3. Orders Respondent to pay, a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $200,000,
plus post-judgment interest within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this Order;
and

4. Orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions

and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VII of this
Order.

Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

VI.

ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.

Respondent, and its successors and assigns, shall cease and desist from violating Section
4g(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6g(a) (2012), and Regulations 1.31(a)(1) and (2) and
1.35(a), 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.31(a)(1), (2), 1.35(a) (2017).

Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000) (“CMP Obligation’’), plus post-judgment interest, within ten (10) days
of the date of the entry of this Order. If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within ten
(10) days of the date of entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on
the CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined
by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to
28 U.S.C. § 1961 (2012).

Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation by electronic funds transfer, U.S. postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank money order. If payment is
to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the payment shall be made
payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent to the address below:

Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Division of Enforcement
ATTN: Accounts Receivables
DOT/FAA/MMAC/AM7Z-341
CFTC/CPSC/SEC

6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
(405) 954-7262 office

(405) 954-1620 fax
nikki.gibson @ faa. gov

 

If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact Nikki
Gibson or her successor at the above address to receive payment instructions and shall
fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany payment of the CMP
Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent and the name and
docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall simultaneously transmit
copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief Financial Officer,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20581.

C. Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

1. Public Statements: Respondent agrees that neither it nor any of its successors
and assigns, agents or employees under its authority or control shall take any
action or make any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, any findings
or conclusions in this Order or creating, or tending to create, the impression that
this Order is without a factual basis; provided, however, that nothing in this
provision shall affect Respondent’s: (1) testimonial obligations; or (11) right to
take legal positions in other proceedings to which the Commission is not a party.
Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with this agreement, and
shall undertake all steps necessary to ensure that all of its agents and/or
employees under its authority or control understand and comply with this

agreement.

2. Respondent agrees to withdraw from registration with the Commission in all
capacities.

3. Respondent agrees that it shall never, directly or indirectly:

a. apply for registration or claim exemption from registration with the
Commission in any capacity, or engage in any activity requiring such
registration or exemption from registration with the Commission except
as provided for in Regulation 4.14(a)(9), 17 C.F.R. § 4.14(a)(9) (2017).

D. Cooperation, in General: Respondent shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with
the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, in this action,
and in any current or future Commission investigation or action related
thereto. Respondent shall also cooperate in any investigation, civil litigation, or
administrative matter related to, or arising from, this action.

E. Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by the
Commission of any partial payment of Respondent’s CMP Obligation shall not be
deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this Order, or a
waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any remaining balance.

F, Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full its CMP
Obligation as set forth in this Order, Respondent shall provide written notice to the
Commission by certified mail of any change to its telephone number and mailing address
within ten (10) calendar days of the change.

The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.

Christopher J hee ele

Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: August 31, 2017
