#= An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know “

THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT of” J USTICE

 

 

Department of Justice

Office of Public Affairs

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, October 27, 2020

Beam Suntory Inc. Agrees to Pay Over $19 Million to Resolve Criminal Foreign Bribery Case

Beam Suntory Inc. (Beam), a Chicago-based company that produces and sells distilled beverages, has agreed to pay a criminal monetary
penalty of $19,572,885 to resolve the department’s investigation into violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).

The resolution arises in part out of Beam’s scheme to pay a bribe to an Indian government official in exchange for approval of a license to bottle
a line of products that Beam sought to market and sell in India, and related internal controls and books and records violations, which included
efforts by a then-member of Beam’s legal department to affirmatively avoid uncovering information related to improper activities and practices
by third-parties engaged by Beam in India that presented corruption risks.

Beam entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Northern District of Illinois in connection with a criminal information unsealed today in the Northern District of Illinois charging Beam with one
count of conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery, internal controls, and books and records provisions of the FCPA.

“Beam and its Indian subsidiary not only paid bribes to Indian government officials, they intentionally failed to implement internal controls to
prevent bribery and falsified their books and records to conceal the corrupt activity,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Brian C. Rabbitt of
the Justice Department’s Criminal Division. “Companies that use corrupt influence instead of competing in a fair, ethical, and honest manner
should take note of today’s agreement: paying bribes to obtain and retain business is not business as usual, it is a crime.”

“U.S. companies that attempt to gain the upper hand in foreign business ventures by engaging in corruption must be held accountable,” said
U.S. Attorney John R. Lausch Jr. for the Northern District of Illinois. “The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has a long reach, and for good reason. It
is critical that our global economy remain on a fair playing field.”

“Bribery undermines the public's trust in our markets, and the FBI will never stop fighting to hold corrupt companies accountable whenever and
wherever they abuse that trust,” said Special Agent in Charge Emmerson Buie Jr. of the FBI’s Chicago Office.

According to its admissions, Beam conspired with others to violate the FCPA by, among other things, engaging in a scheme to pay a bribe of one
million Indian Rupees (approximately equal to $18,000 at the then exchange rate) to a senior Indian government official in exchange for that
official’s approval of a license to bottle “Ready-to-Drink” (RTD) products that Beam sought to market and sell in India through its subsidiary,
Beam Global Spirits & Wine (India) Private Ltd. (Beam India). The bribe was authorized by a high-ranking executive at Beam’s Asia Pacific/South
America regional business unit, who directed that the payment be made through Beam India’s third-party bottler in order to conceal it.

According to its admissions, from the time Beam acquired the Indian business in 2006 through the end of the third quarter of 2012, Beam India
paid bribes and made other improper payments to various Indian government officials, including corrupt payments to obtain or retain business
in the Indian market. Most of the corrupt payments were made through third-party sales promoters and distributors, who paid government
officials to secure orders of Beam products at government controlled depots and retail stores, obtain prominent placement of Beam products in
government retail stores, acquire and renew label registrations and licenses, and enable the distribution of Beam spirit products from Beam
India’s Behror bottling facility to warehouses in other states throughout India.

As part of the conspiracy, Beam also agreed with others to fail to implement and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls,
which would have helped to detect and halt Beam India’s longstanding practice of making corrupt payments to Indian government officials, and
to falsify its books and records. On numerous occasions, Beam was cautioned by outside advisors regarding the need to implement sufficient
internal accounting controls relating to risks associated with improper activities by third parties in India, but Beam failed to implement sufficient
controls. Beam also maintained falsely recorded expenses, including corrupt payments concealed as commission expenses, and falsified
certifications, including false sub-certification letters submitted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in its consolidated books, records, and
accounts.

As part of the deferred prosecution agreement, Beam agreed to continue to cooperate with the department in any ongoing or future criminal
investigations concerning Beam, its executives, employees, or agents. In addition, under the agreement, Beam agreed to enhance its
compliance program and to report to the government on the implementation of its enhanced compliance program.

The government reached this resolution with Beam based on a number of factors, including the failure to timely disclose the conduct that
triggered the investigation; the nature and seriousness of the offense, including the involvement of a then-executive officer of Beam, a then-
high-level employee in Beam’s Legal Department, and a then-high-level executive at Beam India; the lack of an effective compliance program
at the time of the misconduct; the company’s failure to fully cooperate, including positions taken by Beam that were not consistent with full
cooperation, as well as significant delays caused by Beam in reaching a timely resolution and its refusal to accept responsibility for several
years; and Beam’s failure to fully remediate, including its failure to discipline certain individuals involved in the conduct.

The criminal monetary penalty for Beam reflects a 10 percent reduction off the bottom of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range because
Beam received partial credit for its remediation and cooperation with the government’s investigation.

In July 2018, in a related matter with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Beam agreed to pay the SEC disgorgement and
prejudgment interest totaling approximately $6 million and a civil monetary penalty of $2 million but the department is not crediting any
portion of the penalty paid to the SEC because Beam did not seek to coordinate a parallel resolution with the department.
The FBI's Chicago Office investigated the case. Trial Attorneys John-Alex Romano and Della Sentilles of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section
and Assistant U.S. Attorney Tyler C. Murray of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois are prosecuting the case.

The Justice Department’s Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this case.

The Fraud Section is responsible for investigating and prosecuting all FCPA matters. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA
enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal-fraud/foreign-corrupt-practices-act.

The year 2020 marks the 150th anniversary of the Department of Justice. Learn more about the history of our agency at
www.lustice.gov/Celebrating150Years.

 

Attachment(s):
Download Beam Deferred Prosecution Agreement
Download Beam Information

Topic(s):
Foreign Corruption

Component(s):

Criminal Division

Criminal - Criminal Fraud Section
Criminal - Office of International Affairs
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
USAO - Illinois, Northern

Press Release Number:
20-1161

Updated October 30, 2020
