2020-BCFP-0017 Document’ Filed 10/13/2020 Page 1 of 40

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 2020-BCFP-0017

 

In the Matter of: CONSENT ORDER

Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation

 

 

The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) has reviewed
repossession and servicing activities by Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation
(Respondent, as defined below) and has identified the following law violations:
(1) Respondent wrongfully repossessed some vehicles despite having agreements
in place with consumers to prevent repossession; (2) Respondent, through
repossession agents, kept personal property that was located in consumers’
vehicles at the time of repossession and would not return that personal property
until consumers paid a fee for its storage; (3) Respondent, through its service
provider, deprived consumers making auto-loan payments by phone of the ability

to select a payment option with a significantly lower fee than the one they were
AAA RE ANA? my ak ett AEA IN mt aN
POCO REE BLOAT Macument 7 Filed TO/93/eoeg Pane | of 40
he LP I NE Me oh : - PoRPRG  OPAWE G ae Po GaSe 2. Me ]

charged; and (4) Respondent made a deceptive statement in its agreements to
extend consumers’ auto loans that appeared to limit consumers’ bankruptcy
protections. These actions violated the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010
(CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536. Under Sections 1053 and 1055 of the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA), 12 U.S.C. §§ 5563, 5565, the Bureau

issues this Consent Order (Consent Order).

I

Jurisdiction
1. The Bureau has jurisdiction over this matter under sections 1053 and 1055

of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. 8§ 5563 and 5565.

I
Stipulation

2. Respondent has executed a “Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a
Consent Order,” dated October 5, 2020 (Stipulation), which is
incorporated by reference and is accepted by the Bureau. By this
Stipulation, Respondent has consented to the issuance of this Consent
Order by the Bureau under sections 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, 12
U.S.C. §§ 5563 and 5565, without admitting or denying any of the
findings of fact or conclusions of law, except that Respondent admits the

facts necessary to establish the
AAAS PAPE FN Uy ~~ C4 were 2 PRIA RPA my ~ o ~
AOR OS AAT? Macimant 4 Ribas TPP eras Dewar Sey oS
” ek dee PSR Se ead FE : ; ay Sabbabey sy : Bi gate yk oas foe i : ent sip eh :
ae We Pe Pur kd Ra Ra PE bos a PAE Te ea bo CAMS sf Ae

Bureau’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of this

action.

ll

Definitions
The following definitions apply to this Consent Order:

a. “Accounts” means retail installment sales accounts and lease accounts
maintained and serviced by Respondent.

b. “Affected Consumers” includes all consumers whose Accounts were
serviced by Respondent and who were subjected to a Wrongful
Repossession from January 1, 2013 through the Effective Date, as
determined by the independent review process set forth in Section VIII of
this Consent Order or otherwise identified by Respondent.

c. “Board” means Respondent’s duly-elected and acting Board of Directors.

d. “Effective Date” means the date on which the Consent Order is issued.

e. “Identified Consumer Accounts” refers to the list of potentially Affected
Consumers compiled by the Bureau which identifies Accounts to be
reviewed by the independent review process set forth in Section VIII of

this Consent Order.
AAO Pee rer A a? ms
: IHPO.BRC a bf Wy Pac
DP at

oe We AP he 8

f. “Regional Director” means the Regional Director for the Southeast
Region for the Office of Supervision for the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, or his or her delegate.

g. “Related Consumer Action” means a private action by or on behalf of
one or more consumers or an enforcement action by another
governmental agency brought against Respondent based on substantially
the same facts as described in Section IV of this Consent Order.

h. “Respondent” means Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation (“NMAC”),
and its successors and assigns.

i. “Wrongful Repossession” means a repossession of a consumer’s vehicle
that occurred even though one of the conditions set forth in sub-
paragraphs 3.i.a or 3.1.b, below, was satisfied or existed, subject to the
limitations set forth in sub-paragraph 3.1.c:

a. Before Respondent assigned the vehicle for repossession:
(1) Respondent entered into an agreement with the consumer under
which the consumer promised to make a payment and the
promised action date was still outstanding; (11) Respondent agreed
to an extension agreement with the consumer to bring the Account
current and the consumer had not become delinquent again after

the extension agreement was applied; (111) Respondent entered into
AAA Teer as aor mrs
wit t deb Che RPL EE Y Phe
whe et Bo a Ned aie ft wie

an agreement with the consumer, reflected in Respondent’s system
notes, phone recordings, or electronic or other written
communications (together, “Respondent’s Records”), and told the
consumer that the repossession would be postponed for a certain
amount of time due to an action that the consumer took, but
Respondent failed to honor that agreement; or (iv) the consumer
had made a payment sufficient under Respondent’s policies,
procedures, or practices to avoid the vehicle’s being assigned for a
repossession.

b. After Respondent assigned the vehicle for repossession: (1) the
consumer brought the Account current; (11) the consumer entered
into an agreement, reflected in Respondent’s Records, that was
accepted by Respondent to cancel or postpone the repossession; or
(ii1) the consumer made a payment sufficient under Respondent’s
policies, procedures, or practices to stop the repossession.

c. A repossession will not be deemed a Wrongful Repossession
under this Consent Order if it occurred less than six (6) business
hours after the Respondent’s Records reflect either that the
consumer notified Respondent of the payment described in subpart

3.1.64) or 3.1.bGi1) or Respondent’s acceptance of the agreement
AQAA Re per e Pa na te mm - Lod reek 2 MPLA ER EOE Poa
- 38 hap ge ee at Pk aS NN a eR a Bagby Oh ae: PPT RPA ES Sas ohh oe ety
AS UR ES Pre GE LIOCUTISNL | PHO TUT ore rade

described in subparagraph 3.1.b(i1). Further, where a consumer
made a payment described in subpart 3.1.b() or 3.1.b(i11) through
Respondent’s online payment portal, and Respondent’s Records do
not reflect that the consumer notified Respondent that the payment
had been made, a repossession will not be deemed a Wrongful
Repossession under this Consent Order if it occurred less than one
business day after the consumer’s payment was made. Finally,
where a consumer made a payment described in subpart 3.1.b(1) or
3.1.b(i11) through a channel other than Respondent’s online
payment portal, and Respondent’s Records do not reflect that the
consumer notified Respondent that the payment had been made, a
repossession will not be deemed a Wrongful Repossession under
this Consent Order if it occurred less than six (6) business hours

after the consumer’s payment posts to the consumer’s Account.

IV
Bureau Findings and Conclusions

The Bureau finds the following:
Respondent is an auto financing subsidiary of Nissan North America, Inc.
that services loans and leases.
Nissan and Infiniti dealerships nationwide originate and then assign the

loans and leases to Respondent.
10.

11.

AAA RE ANA? my ak ett AN me ot ah
POCO REE BLOAT Macument 7 Fiied TO/9 3 /eoeG Rare ~ of 49
ae We Pe wt okt perk : Xa AEN a Be Pr CAN FMS

Respondent’s auto loan servicing operations are based in Irving, Texas.
NMAC services millions of Accounts, representing billions of dollars in
outstanding principal. In 2018, dealerships assigned NMAC over 382,000
new loans and 299,000 new leases. That same year, NMAC serviced
$49.3 billion in outstanding loans and leases.
Respondent is a “covered person” under the CFPA because it is in the
business of servicing Accounts. 12 U.S.C. § 5481(6), (15)(A)Q@).
Findings and Conclusions as to Unfair Acts or Practices

Sections 1031 and 1036(a)(1)(B) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531,
5536(a)(1)(B), prohibits covered persons from engaging “in any unfair,
deceptive, or abusive act or practice.”
An act or practice is unfair if it causes or is likely to cause substantial
injury to consumers that is not reasonably avoidable by consumers and that
is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition.
12 U.S.C. § 5531(c)(1).

Respondent Wrongfully Repossessed Consumers’ Vehicles
When NMAC consumers miss Account payments, Respondent asks them
to make a promise to pay by a certain date, or to enter into an agreement to

extend their loan, known as an extension agreement, to avoid repossession.
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

AAAS PAPE FL Oe ~ C4 were 2 PRIA RPA my ~ co
AOR OS AAT? Macimant 4 Ribas TPP eras Deva Sef oS
” ek dee PSR Se ead FE : ; ay Sabbabey sy : Bi gate yk oas foe i : “ ee ‘
ae We Pe Pur kd Ra Ra PE bos a PAE Te ea roe Se RP OME

Respondent periodically attempts to contact consumers concerning missed
payments from the time consumers miss the first payment until the vehicle
is repossessed.

From 2013 through at least 2018, Respondent’s policy was not to refer an
Account for repossession when the consumer had an active promise to
pay—meaning the consumer had made a promise to pay by a date that had
not yet passed—or had recently entered an extension agreement to resolve
the consumer’s delinquency.

Respondent informed consumers that it would not repossess their vehicles
if the consumers paid to decrease their delinquency to under 60 days past
due, kept a promise to pay, or entered into an extension agreement.
Respondent also informed consumers that it would not repossess vehicles
if the consumers’ payments were less than 60 days past due.

From 2013 through September of 2019, Respondent repossessed the
vehicles of hundreds of consumers who had: (1) made payments that
decreased their delinquency to less than 60 days past due; (11) made and
kept promises to pay; (iii) made promises to pay by a future date that had
not yet passed; or (iv) agreed to extension agreements with Respondent.
Each of these actions taken by consumers should have prevented

repossessions.
17.

18.

19.

AAAS PAPE FN Uy ~ C4 wees 2 PRIA RPA ey ~ o ~
AOR OS AAT? Mactomant 4 Ribas TPP eras Mapes O st if
, ve dae PS em oe r ; tS Par seks : RE date yh de Pow he bs itt} t
ae We Pe Pur kd Ra Ra PE bos a PAE Te ea roe rot Md

As aresult of Respondent’s Wrongful Repossessions consumers lost the
use of their vehicles. Many also experienced other consequences, such as
missed work, expenses for alternative transportation, repossession-related
fees, detrimental credit reporting, and vehicle damage in the repossession
process.

Respondent’s Wrongful Repossessions caused or were likely to cause
substantial injury to consumers that was not reasonably avoidable or
outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or competition.
Thus, Respondent engaged in unfair acts and practices, in violation of the

CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(c), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Respondent, Through its Repossession Agents, Engaged in Unfair Acts and

20.

21.

22.

Practices by Withholding Consumers’ Personal Belongings Until the

Consumers Paid an Upfront Fee
Respondent contracts with “repossession forwarders” to manage
repossessions of consumers’ vehicles on behalf of NMAC.
After Respondent identifies a vehicle for repossession, Respondent assigns
it to a repossession forwarder to manage the process.
Respondent’s repossession forwarders then assign Respondent’s
repossessions to repossession agents, who pick up consumers’ vehicles on

behalf of Respondent.
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

Respondent provides information to the repossession forwarders indicating
that a vehicle should be repossessed.

Respondent does not advise its consumers the date or time when a
repossession will occur.

After repossessions occur, Respondent sends communications to
consumers whose vehicles have been repossessed indicating that the
repossession has occurred and noting what consumers will have to pay to
recover their vehicles.

Consumers’ vehicles in many instances contain the consumers’ personal
property. Consumers reported that ttems such as children’s car seats,
college textbooks, and prescription sunglasses were in their vehicles when
the vehicles were repossessed.

From at least early 2014 through late August 2017, Respondent’s
repossession agents in many instances imposed fees on consumers for
holding personal property contained in repossessed vehicles. These
repossession agents often refused to return consumers’ personal property
unless and until the consumers paid the fees.

Respondent knew that its repossession agents often refused to return
consumers’ personal property until after the consumers paid the upfront

fees.

10
29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

AOA Ww Bere Mm Aa Praesens 5 seat 4 iw 4 SIAM Mises, F4 at A
POS O.BRCEELOOT Rincument 4 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0 Rane dt oft df
Ba Sf tn ST et : BA AEN Pa POPS! fA baer ole : ge Fob Ga

Respondent represented to some consumers that it had no control over the
fees repossession agents charged, but in some instances Respondent
directed repossession forwarders to have repossession agents lower the
fees charged to consumers.

Some consumers whose vehicles were repossessed could not recover their
personal property because they did not pay the fees. Others were denied
access to their personal property until they paid the upfront fees.

The practice of withholding consumers’ personal property unless
consumers paid an upfront fee to recover it caused or was likely to cause
substantial injury that is not reasonably avoidable or outweighed by
countervailing benefits to consumers or competition.

Respondent is liable for the actions of its repossession agents related to
detaining consumers’ personal property.

Respondent, through its repossession agents, therefore engaged in unfair
acts and practices, in violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531(c),

5536(a)(1)(B).

Respondent, Through its Service Provider, Deprived Consumers of the Ability

34.

to Choose Pay by Phone Options with Significantly Lower Fees
Respondent permits consumers to make Account payments online,

telephonically, by mail, or through an auto-debit program.

1]
35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

PAA PE Ae PVs mut A Ph A Ee PS ween FM ww AM
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0 Pane 1? of 40
Sa tet RAP ASE EAD ERG PoEPRSAS GU baa eure : Lag he bh

Respondent engaged a third-party payment processor to handle consumer
calls regarding telephonic payments and to process those payments.

This payment processor handled over 18 million payments for Respondent
between 2012 and 2017. The payment processor’s agents spoke to
consumers on Respondent’s behalf to obtain payments on Respondent’s
Accounts.

From 2012 through late 2017, the payment processor charged
Respondent’s consumers $5 for payments by electronic check or in-
network debit-card payments and $12.95 for credit-card and out-of-
network debit-card payments. In-network debit-cards are cards that could
be processed without a PIN over the Star, NYCE, Pulse, or Accel ATM
networks.

Until at least late 2017, some of Respondent’s consumer-facing materials,
such as billing invoices, stated that “transaction fees may apply” for
telephonic payments.

None of Respondent’s consumer-facing materials disclosed the fee
amounts for telephonic payments or the considerable price difference
between available methods of payment by phone.

Many of Respondent’s customers called and made payments by phone

through Respondent’s third-party phone-payment processor. Many of

12
41.

42.

43.

44,

45.

POA PS ORE PR as PN as aun Phy at APA Pa SPP Rua es, F933 nt AM
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0 Pane Ta of 40
Ba Sf tn ST et RPA TAS Pd POPPA FE ba ee 5 Soghe FP LE

those consumers elected to make credit-card or out-of-network debit-card
payments. In many cases where consumers elected one of those options,
Respondent’s third-party phone-payment-processing vendor failed to tell
consumers about significant differences in the fees.
This practice caused or was likely to cause substantial injury to consumers.
Numerous consumers were charged $7.95 more to make a phone payment
than they would have been if they had selected a different payment option,
and they often made those selections without information about the lower-
fee options.
This injury was not reasonably avoidable or outweighed by countervailing
benefits to consumers or competition.
Respondent is liable for the acts of the third-party payment processor.
Respondent, through the third-party payment processor, therefore engaged
in unfair acts and practices, in violation of the CFPA. 12 U.S.C. §§
5531(c), 5536(a)(1)(B).

Findings and Conclusions as to Deceptive Acts or Practices
An act or practice is deceptive under the CFPA if (1) there is a
representation or omission of information that is likely to mislead
consumers acting reasonably under the circumstances; and (11) that

information is material to consumers.

13
46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

ARAN AAPM ANAT Py ce et mt AAAI ASS
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0
on at te PE RPA TAS Pd Pits fobs < ;

Respondent’s Extension Agreements Misrepresented Consumers’
Bankruptcy Rights

Respondent offers loan extension agreements to some consumers who are
experiencing financial difficulties.
From at least January 2012 through February 2017, Respondent’s
extension agreement contracts, as well as written confirmations it sent to
consumers who agreed to extensions orally, included the following
language:

As acondition of you making this request, you represent that you

have not filed and agree that you will not file for bankruptcy

protection within 120 days after the date of this correspondence, and

that an extension is contingent upon the absence of any such filing. If

you should so file for bankruptcy protection, then this agreement is

void for misrepresentation, and we may seek payment of the extended

payments as originally scheduled and may deem such payment to be

in default.
From 2012 through 2016, Respondent sent extension agreements or
written confirmations of oral agreements including this language to
between 50,000 to 150,000 consumers each year.
Respondent’s extension agreements created the net impression that
consumers could not file for bankruptcy.
In truth and in fact, consumers could file for bankruptcy. An agreement to

waive an individual’s right to file for bankruptcy is void as against public

policy.

14
2020-BCFP-0017 Document1 Filed 10/13/2020 Page 15 of 40

51. These statements are material because they were likely to affect
consumers’ conduct in executing the written extension agreement or
considering whether to file for bankruptcy.

52. Respondent’s representations were false and misleading and constituted
deceptive acts or practices, in violation of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. §§

5531(a), 5536(a)(1)(B).

ORDER
Vv

Conduct Provisions

IT IS ORDERED, under sections 1053 and 1055 of the CFPA, that:
53. Respondent, and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys
who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or
indirectly, in connection with servicing of any Account, may not

misrepresent, or assist others in misrepresenting, expressly or impliedly:

i. That a consumer may not file for bankruptcy; or
iit. Any other fact material to consumers concerning their rights
related to initiating a bankruptcy proceeding.
54. Respondent and its officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys

who have actual notice of this Consent Order, whether acting directly or

indirectly, must take the following affirmative actions:

15
Respondent must review its repossession assignment and cancellation
process and implement additional system or employee controls and adopt
reasonable policies and procedures to avoid Wrongful Repossessions;

. Respondent must review its process for monitoring and addressing
system-error messages related to cancelling or holding a repossession and
develop and implement any changes necessary to ensure errors are
flagged and responded to in a timely manner;

Respondent must track all future Wrongful Repossessions. Respondent’s
tracking must segregate actual Wrongful Repossessions from instances
where the Respondent waived repossession fees for consumers as a
courtesy;

. Respondent must conduct a quarterly review of any Wrongful
Repossessions that occur after the Effective Date to identify any patterns
or practices that need to be addressed;

Respondent must adopt reasonable policies and procedures to remedy
instances of future Wrongful Repossession. Respondent must provide
consumers with remediation for such Wrongful Repossessions, including
waiver or refund of all repossession-related fees, correction of the
consumer’s credit report, and a refund of actual costs incurred for both

loss of use of the consumer’s vehicle (such as alternate transportation

16
ARAN AAPM ANAT PA ee mht AAR AL IAA
POS O.BRCEELOOT Roaciumert 7 Pilad TOPE Oea
on at te PE te AEN Ed PikaAs Fob sass re

costs) and other reasonable and verifiable consequential damages
incurred by the consumer. Such remediation must be paid to any
consumer whose vehicle is Wrongfully Repossessed within the later of
seven business days of notification that the repossession was a Wrongful
Repossession, or two business days after Respondent’s receipt of
evidence of actual costs incurred. It is further provided that Respondent
must promptly notify the consumer of her right to provide such evidence
of actual costs incurred;

. Respondent must prohibit its repossession agents (through contract or
otherwise) from charging personal property fees to NMAC consumers
directly and demanding fees as a condition of returning personal
property;

. If Respondent offers consumers the option to make Account payments by
phone, Respondent must, on each call during which a consumer makes
such a payment, clearly disclose to the consumer the fee for each method
of making a payment by phone, before the consumer is asked which
method they wish to use;

. If Respondent charges consumers fees to make payments via other

channels (e.g., online portal, postal mail), Respondent must disclose all

17
ARAN AAPM ANAT Py ce et mt AAAI ASS
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0
Soke eR Pee RPA TAS Pd Pitas Pobawi < ;

fees for each method on Respondent’s website or its monthly billing
statements; and

i. For all Affected Consumers, Respondent:

1. Shall complete a review of all information furnished to any
consumer reporting agency from October 1, 2013 through the
Effective Date to determine whether information Respondent
furnished to any consumer reporting agency requires correction
or updating consistent with 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(2); and

2. Shall use the results of the review required by paragraph (1)(1)
to provide corrected or updated information to the consumer
reporting agencies consistent with 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(a)(2). In
the event that Respondent cannot, after its review, verify that
information it furnished about Affected Consumers requires
correction or updating, it shall request that the consumer
reporting agency delete the furnished information, unless the
final account status or payment rating indicates that the account
is current. Respondent will not thereafter re-furnish any

inaccurate or incomplete information.

18
55.

56.

57.

ARAN AAPM ANAT PN oe a mht AAAS Ie ry
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0 Pace if
Ba Sf tn ST et : BA AEN Pa POPS! fA baer ole : ghee of

VI

Compliance Plan

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Within 45 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director for review and determination of non-objection a
comprehensive compliance plan designed to ensure that Respondent’s
Account servicing activities comply with the terms of this Consent Order

(Compliance Plan). The Compliance Plan must include, at a minimum:

a. Detailed steps for addressing each action required by this Consent Order,

including, but not limited to, requirements set forth in Paragraph 68(a)-

(k); and

b. Specific timeframes and deadlines for implementation of the steps

described above.
The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a determination of
non-objection to the Compliance Plan or direct the Respondent to revise it.
If the Regional Director directs the Respondent to revise the Compliance
Plan, the Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit the
Compliance Plan to the Regional Director within 30 days.
After receiving notification that the Regional Director has made a

determination of non-objection to the Compliance Plan, the Respondent

19
ARAR RAPA AMA PY ce et my a Ie mo NAN
SOW CERIN Pine iyyaaint 4 Bland Taste froaen Baan OO af Ag
Ba th RS SE Rat ASE EERE ER | SPINA! GAR bal cole 5 Lae A OPS

must implement and adhere to the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and

timeframes outlined in the Compliance Plan.

VII
Role of the Board

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

58. The Board, or a relevant committee thereof, must review all submissions
(including plans, reports, programs, policies, and procedures) required by
this Consent Order prior to submission to the Bureau.

59. Although this Consent Order requires Respondent to submit certain
documents for the review or non-objection by the Regional Director, the
Board will have the ultimate responsibility for proper and sound
management of Respondent and for ensuring that Respondent complies
with Federal consumer financial law and this Consent Order.

60. In each instance that this Consent Order requires the Board to ensure
adherence to, or perform certain obligations of Respondent, the Board, or a

relevant committee thereof, must:

a. Authorize whatever actions are necessary for Respondent to fully
comply with the Consent Order;
b. Require timely reporting by management to the Board on the status of

compliance obligations; and

20
61.

62.

ARAN AAPM ANAT Py ce et mt AAAI ASS
POS O.BRCEELOOT Roaciumert 7 Pilad TOPE Oea
on at te PE RPA TAS Pd Pits fobs < ;

c. Require timely and appropriate corrective action to remedy any
material non-compliance with any failures to comply with Board

directives related to this Section.

Vill
Order to Pay Redress

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must reserve or deposit
into a segregated deposit account an amount not less than $750,000 or
greater than $1,000,000, for the purpose of providing Cash Redress to
Affected Consumers as required by this Consent Order.
Redress will be paid in two forms to Affected Consumers: through checks
mailed by Respondent to consumers (Cash Redress), and through credits
Respondent will provide to consumers for any repossession fees for
Wrongful Repossessions still outstanding on Affected Consumers’

Accounts (Credit Redress), as follows:

a. Respondent will provide Cash Redress to each Affected Consumer for
loss of use of their vehicles for the number of days they were without
their vehicle;

b. Respondent will provide Cash Redress to each Affected Consumer

that paid repossession or other fees to the Respondent due to the

21
63.

64.

AN PS RE Ae oe ~ a, puts ee Ee ox me = “~
SOOO BRE BLAS? Mie issycinmt 4 Pilar TAPP SPOAeH Base 3 af An
CITES WAS Ee BASE EAGER PoE GU baer cue Y CALS cel Lab orks

Wrongful Repossession that have not already been credited or
refunded to the Affected Consumer by NMAC, in the amount of the
fees paid; and
c. Respondent will provide Credit Redress to each Affected Consumer
who has repossession and other fees that still appear on their NUVAC
Account due to the Wrongful Repossession, in the amount of the
outstanding fees.
Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must provide to the
Regional Director for non-objection a proposal for retaining an
independent third-party administrator (ITPA) for the purpose of
conducting a review of consumer files to identify all consumers whose
vehicles have been Wrongfully Repossessed and the amount of Cash
Redress and Credit Redress owed to each consumer (Independent Third-
Party Proposal).
The Independent Third-Party Proposal shall identify the ITPA Respondent
proposes to retain and must include:
a. The proposed ITPA’s qualifications; and
b. A description of all work the ITPA has performed for Respondent in the
five years preceding the Effective Date (if any), including the amount

Respondent paid the ITPA for each engagement.

22
65.

66.

67.

ARAN AAPM ANAT Py ce et mt AAAI ASS
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0
Soke eR Pee RPA TAS Pd Pitas Pobawi < ;

If the Regional Director directs Respondent to revise the Independent
Third-Party Proposal, Respondent must make revisions and resubmit the
proposal within 20 days of the Regional Director’s request.

Within 15 days of receiving written notification that the Regional Director
has made a determination of non-objection to the Independent Third-Party
Proposal, Respondent shall retain the ITPA to conduct a review of
consumer files to identify all consumers whose vehicles have been
Wrongfully Repossessed and the amount of Cash Redress and Credit
Redress owed to each consumer.

Within 30 days of retaining the ITPA, Respondent must submit to the
Regional Director for review and non-objection a comprehensive written
plan for providing redress consistent with this Consent Order (Redress
Plan). The Regional Director will have the discretion to make a
determination of non-objection to the Redress Plan or direct the
Respondent to revise it. If the Regional Director directs Respondent to
revise the Redress Plan, Respondent must make the revisions and resubmit
the Redress Plan to the Regional Director within 15 days. After receiving
notification that the Regional Director has made a determination of non-
objection to the Redress Plan, Respondent must implement and adhere to

the steps, recommendations, deadlines, and timeframes outlined in the

23
APA PR OA PR of 2 ep ~ : of pansy SP ER
AAO Bren Away Pree ey ceed of Wilad A974 2 FS OOGA
eee eh bate ore be ab bob os BMW CE a Barty of Pr PEAY Side Ss wi bee
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE : BHAA Ed Poke! GAR baa cue

Redress Plan.
68. The Redress Plan must:

a. specify the methodology the ITPA will use to conduct a review of the
Identified Consumer Accounts whose vehicles may have been
Wrongfully Repossessed, to identify:

i. all Affected Consumers;
ii. the number of days each Affected Consumer was without his or
her vehicle; and
iii. the amount of repossession fees due to the Wrongful
Repossession that still appear on each Affected Consumers
Account or that the Affected Consumer paid to Respondent.

b. describe the methodology for calculating the portion of Cash Redress
for Affected Consumers: (1) due to loss of use of their vehicle, which
methodology must account for the number of days the Affected
Consumer was without his or her vehicle, including both the calendar
day the vehicle was repossessed and the calendar day on which the
vehicle was returned, and a plan to compensate each Affected
Consumer in the amount of $74 for each day the consumer was
without his or her vehicle, subject to paragraph 70 below; and (ii)

who paid repossession or other fees to the Respondent due to the

24
ARAN AAPM ANAT Py ce et mt AAAI ASS
POS O.BRCEELOOT Roaciumert 7 Pilad TOPE Oea
on at te PE RPA TAS Pd Pits fobs < ;

Wrongful Repossession that have not already been credited or
refunded to the Affected Consumer by NMAC, subject to paragraph
70 below;

. provide that each Affected Consumer will receive a Redress
Notification Letter and provide an exemplar of the Redress
Notification Letter. The Redress Notification Letter must explain how
Respondent will provide Cash Redress and, if applicable, Credit
Redress; the date by which Respondent will provide Cash Redress
and, if applicable, Credit Redress; and that Respondent’s Cash
Redress and, if applicable, Credit Redress payment is in accordance
with the terms of this Consent Order;

. provide an exemplar of the envelope in which the Redress
Notification Letters will be sent with no other materials other than the
approved letters and redress checks, unless Respondent has obtained
written confirmation from the Regional Director that the Bureau does
not object to including such materials;

. require Respondent, when it makes Cash Redress to Affected
Consumers by check, to send the check by United States Post Office
first-class mail, address-correction service requested, to the Affected

Consumer’s last address as maintained in Respondent’s records;

25
AMAR SAPS AMA ry, nt A Pot A AES ISA Monee MA ALA
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPE Oea Marea OS of Af
Ba Sf tn ST et : BA AEN Pa POPS! fA baer ole : ghee a Yay

f. require Respondent, with respect to any Affected Consumer whose
Cash Redress check is returned, to make reasonable attempts to obtain
a current address using standard address-search methodologies,
including a standard address search using the National Change of
Address system, and to promptly re-mail all returned redress checks to
current addresses, if any;

g. require Respondent, if the check for any eligible consumer is returned
to Respondent after a second mailing, or if a current mailing address
cannot be identified using standard address-search methodologies, to
attempt to contact the eligible consumer by the last known email
(notification email) or phone number to notify them of their right to
Cash Redress; and provide an exemplar of the notification email and a
script for the phone call;

h. require Respondent, if the check for any Affected Consumer is
returned to Respondent after a second mailing, or if a current mailing
address cannot be identified using standard address-search
methodologies, to retain the Cash Redress for that Affected Consumer
for 180 days from the date the check was originally mailed, during

which period such amount may be claimed by such Affected

26
ARAN AAPM ANAT PA ee et mht AAR AL IAA
POS O.BRCEELOOT Roaciumert 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0
Ba Sf tn ST et te AEN Ed rita Poise NS

Consumer upon appropriate proof of identity and, after such time,
dispose of these monies in accordance with Paragraph 70, below;

i. specify timeframes and deadlines for implementing the steps
described above;

j. provide for review by Respondent or its counsel of Accounts reviewed
by the ITPA to assure compliance with this Consent Order and the
Redress Plan, provided however that (i) the ITPA retains full and final
decision-making rights as to the class of Affected Consumers and
amounts of redress due to Affected Consumers under this Consent
Order; and (11) a detailed accounting of any changes or modifications
to the class of Affected Consumers or amounts of redress due to
Affected Consumers as a result of Respondent’s review under this
provision shall be documented and provided to the Bureau prior to
completion of redress administration; and

k. provide that Respondent will pay all costs of administering Cash
Redress and Credit Redress as required by this Section.

After Respondent has completed redress administration under the Redress
Plan, Respondent must submit a report to the Regional Director, and
identify how much Cash Redress and Credit Redress was successfully

distributed or credited to Affected Consumers.

27
70.

71.

72.

ARAN AAPM ANAT Py ce et mt AAAI ASS
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPS s/eo0e0
Soke eR Pee RPA TAS Pd Pitas Pobawi < ;

If the total amount of Cash Redress due to Affected Consumers is less than
$750,000, within 30 days of the completion of the Redress Plan,
Respondent must pay to the Bureau, by wire transfer to the Bureau or to
the Bureau’s agent, and according to the Bureau’s wiring instructions, the
difference between the amount of Cash Redress provided to Affected
Consumers and $750,000. If the total amount of Cash Redress due to
Affected Consumers under this Section is greater than $1,000,000, the
amount paid to each Affected Consumer may be reduced pro rata using
$1,000,000 as the total Cash Redress amount available to Affected
Consumers and Respondent will not be responsible for any further Cash
Redress in excess of $1,000,000.

The Bureau may use any remaining funds due to it under Paragraph 70 to
pay additional redress to Affected Consumers. If the Bureau determines, in
its sole discretion, that additional redress is wholly or partially
impracticable or otherwise inappropriate, or if funds remain after the
additional redress is completed, the Bureau will deposit any remaining
funds in the U.S. Treasury as disgorgement. Respondent will have no right
to challenge any actions that the Bureau or its representatives may take
under this Section.

Respondent may not condition the payment of any redress to any Affected

28
AAAA APS AMA Py, nt A ee ARS IAA So TN OAR
POOL ROE DLA? Miners t fF Cian 4974 SFA Dineen BOQ at A
Sai tee ot SNP be RAPASLOLE ETA EPR od POoEUREAS bs bale : AL ke ger AY Sars

feria ett
Boe SF ne

Consumer under this Consent Order on that Affected Consumer waiving

any right.

IX
Order to Pay Civil Money Penalties

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

73.

74.

75.

70.

Under section 1055(c) of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c), by reason of the
violations of law described in Section IV of this Consent Order, and taking
into account the factors in 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c)(3), Respondent must pay a
civil money penalty of $4 million to the Bureau.

Within 10 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must pay the civil
money penalty by wire transfer to the Bureau or to the Bureau’s agent in
compliance with the Bureau’s wiring instructions.

The civil money penalty paid under this Consent Order will be deposited
in the Civil Penalty Fund of the Bureau as required by section 1017(d) of
the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5497(d).

Respondent must treat the civil money penalty paid under this Consent
Order as a penalty paid to the government for all purposes. Regardless of

how the Bureau ultimately uses those funds, Respondent may not:

29
77.

PN PM OIE RA 2 ep ~ : of pay SP ER ax me ~ ~*~
AON Beem Asay Pree ey ceed of Wilad TAf/4 SFGASGH Breese, SOM at A
eee eh bate ore be ab bob os POSMOUCE UY TUES: of Pe GO’ Ge bee et ree e Pe ef es OSE GY gat
an Mt an at Bat Naa RPA TAS Pd PoP FG ba ee : Lag he WP

a. Claim, assert, or apply for a tax deduction, tax credit, or any other
tax benefit for any civil money penalty paid under this Consent
Order; or
b. Seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or
indemnification from any source, including but not limited to
payment made under any insurance policy, with regard to any civil
money penalty paid under this Consent Order.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil money penalty in any Related
Consumer Action, Respondent may not argue that Respondent is entitled
to, nor may Respondent benefit by, any offset or reduction of any
compensatory monetary remedies imposed in the Related Consumer
Action because of the civil money penalty paid in this action. If the court
in any Related Consumer Action offsets or otherwise reduces the amount
of compensatory monetary remedies imposed against Respondent based on
the civil money penalty paid in this action or based on any payment that
the Bureau makes from the Civil Penalty Fund, Respondent must, within
30 days after entry of a final order granting such offset or reduction, notify
the Bureau, and pay the amount of the offset or reduction to the U.S.
Treasury. Such a payment will not be considered an additional civil money

penalty and will not change the amount of the civil money penalty

30
ARAN AAPM ANAT PN oe a mht AAAS Ie mh... a eh
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Fideacd Of Sfeoeo Pace St oof df
Bn ad athe KP LP RSE : BA AEN Pa Poke! GAR baa cue Y CARS Ob wah MY

imposed in this action.

xX

Additional Monetary Provisions

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

78.

79.

80.

81.

In the event of any default on Respondent’s obligations to make payment
under this Consent Order, interest, computed under 28 U.S.C. § 1961, as
amended, will accrue on any outstanding amounts not paid from the date
of default to the date of payment, and will immediately become due and
payable.

Respondent must relinquish all dominion, control, and title to the funds
paid to the fullest extent permitted by law and no part of the funds may be
returned to Respondent.

Under 31 U.S.C. § 7701, Respondent, unless it already has done so, must
furnish to the Bureau its taxpayer identification numbers, which may be
used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amount
arising out of this Consent Order.

Within 30 days of the entry of a final judgment, consent order, or
settlement in a Related Consumer Action, Respondent must notify the
Regional Director of the final judgment, consent order, or settlement in

writing. That notification must indicate the amount of redress, if any, that

31
82.

83.

ARAN MAPS AMA ~ . a ors oe kN a Ee o-~ — aT
SOA RE AG Phevesirpvcant 4 Pia TAPS AGN Dineen 2 at AG
Sn St en LS et : RARE EERE PoORIREAS GAR baal col : LagAe awa, al re

Respondent paid or is required to pay to consumers and describe the
consumers or classes of consumers to whom that redress has been or will
be paid. Such notification will be treated as “confidential information”

pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 1070.2(f).

XI

Reporting Requirements

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must notify the Bureau of any development that may affect
compliance obligations arising under this Consent Order, including but not
limited to, a dissolution, assignment, sale, merger, or other action that
would result in the emergence of a successor company; the creation or
dissolution of a subsidiary, parent, or affiliate that engages in any acts or
practices subject to this Consent Order; the filing of any bankruptcy or
insolvency proceeding by or against Respondent; or a change in
Respondent’s name or address. Respondent must provide this notice, if
practicable, at least 30 days before the development, but in any case, no
later than 14 days after the development.

Within 90 days of the Effective Date, and again one year after the
Effective Date, Respondent must submit to the Regional Director an

accurate written compliance progress report (Compliance Report) that has

32
SAA RS AEE PA _— ~ . A ous SP a oe om a ~ ~
IOWA CE RATS Pieacmiyrent 4 Cian 44/4 Sfenen Rance BQ af AS
Ba Sf tn ST et = : BA AEN Pa POPS! fA baer ole » OSA MS ead AP Sa

been approved by the Board, or a relevant committee thereof, which, at a
minimum:

a. Lists each applicable paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent Order
and describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with each such paragraph and subparagraph of the Consent
Order;

b. Describes in detail the manner and form in which Respondent has
complied with the Redress Plan and Compliance Plan; and

c. Attaches a copy of each Order Acknowledgment obtained under Section

XII, unless previously submitted to the Bureau.

XII
Order Distribution and Acknowledgment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

84. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of
this Consent Order to each of its board members and executive officers, as
well as to any managers, employees, Service Providers, or other agents and
representatives who have responsibilities related to the subject matter of
the Consent Order.

85. For 5years from the Effective Date, Respondent must deliver a copy of

this Consent Order to any business entity resulting from any change in

33
86.

87.

ARAA SAPS AMAT ~ a ors oe kN a Ee o-~ ~ ~
SOA RE AG Phevesirpvcant 4 Pia TAPS AGN Beane BA af Af
SMe Ths ket : BAAR kd PS OEESAE fla baer ele Po SARS JP A Sy

structure referred to in Section XI, any future board members and
executive officers, as well as to any managers, employees, Service
Providers, or other agents and representatives who will have
responsibilities related to the subject matter of the Consent Order before
they assume their responsibilities.

Respondent must secure a signed and dated statement acknowledging
receipt of a copy of this Consent Order, ensuring that any electronic
signatures comply with the requirements of the E-Sign Act, 15 U.S.C. §
7001 et seg., within 30 days of delivery, from all persons receiving a copy

of this Consent Order under this Section.

XI
Recordkeeping

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

Respondent must create, or if already created, must retain for the duration

of the Consent Order, or the time period provided below, the following

business records:

a. All documents and records necessary to demonstrate full compliance
with each provision of this Consent Order, including all submissions
to the Bureau:

b. All documents and records pertaining to the Redress Plan, described

34
AMAR PPR Ae PVs aunt A ee at Fe SE Rees, DOE «ad A
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Fideacd Of Sfeoeo Pace SS of df
Ba Sf tn ST et ; BA AEN Pa Poke! GAR baa cue Y CARS Put Ld SY

in Section VII above;

c. Fora period of three years from the date of the recording, recordings
of all phone calls with consumers regarding extension agreements,
promises to pay, or between a consumer and the Respondent’s
collections department responsible for 60 days to 120 days past due
Accounts; and

d. All records related to repossessions, aside from recordings covered in
Paragraph 87(c), including any such materials used by a third party on
behalf of Respondent. For the sake of clarity, “any such materials used
by a third party” relates to documents in the Respondent’s possession,
custody, or control.

88. Respondent must retain the documents identified in Paragraph 87(d) for
the duration of the Consent Order.
89. Respondent must make the documents identified in Paragraph 87 available

to the Bureau upon the Bureau’s request.

XIV

Notices
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
90. Unless otherwise directed in writing by the Bureau, Respondent must

provide all submissions, requests, communications, or other documents

35
2020-BCFP-0017 Document1 Filed 10/13/2020 Page 36 of 40

relating to this Consent Order in writing, with the subject line, “/n re
Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation, File No. 2020-BCFP-0017,” and
send them by overnight courier or first-class mail to the below address and

contemporaneously by email to Enforcement Compliance@cfpb.gov:

Regional Director, CFPB Southeast Region
Peachtree Summit Building

401 W. Peachtree Street

Atlanta, GA 30308

XV

Cooperation with the Bureau

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:

91. Respondent must cooperate fully to help the Bureau determine the identity
and location of, and the amount of injury sustained by, each Affected
Consumer. Respondent must provide such information in its or its agents’
possession or control within 30 days of receiving a written request from

the Bureau.

XVI

Compliance Monitoring
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, to monitor Respondent’s compliance
with this Consent Order:
92. Within 21 days of receipt of a written request from the Bureau,

Respondent must submit additional Compliance Reports or other requested

36
ARAR RAF ANA PA ee mht AAAS Ie mh. Oe kh a
POS O.BRCEELOOT Pocument 7 Pilad TOPE Oea Paaea SY of df
Ba Sf tn ST et : BA AEN Pa POPS! fA baer ole YO TALS 2 Yay

non-privileged information, related to requirements of this Consent Order,
which must be made under penalty of perjury; provide sworn testimony
related to requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’
compliance with those requirements; or produce non-privileged documents
related to requirements of this Consent Order and Respondents’
compliance with those requirements.

93. Respondent must permit Bureau representatives to interview about the
requirements of this Consent Order and Respondent’s compliance with
those requirements any employee or other person affiliated with
Respondent who has agreed to such an interview. The person interviewed
may have counsel present.

94. Nothing in this Consent Order will limit the Bureau’s lawful use of civil
investigative demands under 12 C.F.R. § 1080.6 or other compulsory

process.

XVII

Modifications to Non-Material Requirements
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that:
95. Respondent may seek a modification to non-material requirements of this
Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of time and changes to

reporting requirements) by submitting a written request to the Regional

37
96.

97.

98.

SAA RS AEE PA _— ~ . A ous SP a oe om oe ~ ~
IOWA CE RATS Pieacmiyrent 4 Cian 44/4 Sfenen Bane SR af A
Ba Sf tn ST et = : BA AEN Pa POPS! fA baer ole » OSA MS ep ade Lb Aare

Director.

The Regional Director may, in his or her discretion, modify any non-
material requirements of this Consent Order (e.g., reasonable extensions of
time and changes to reporting requirements) if he or she determines good
cause justifies the modification. Any such modification by the Regional

Director must be in writing.

XVII

Administrative Provisions
The provisions of this Consent Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise
prevent the Bureau, or any other governmental agency, from taking any
other action against Respondent, except as described in Paragraph 98.
The Bureau releases and discharges Respondent from all potential liability
for law violations that the Bureau has or might have asserted based on the
practices described in Section IV of this Consent Order, to the extent such
practices occurred before the Effective Date and the Bureau knows about
them as of the Effective Date. The Bureau may use the practices described
in this Consent Order in future enforcement actions against Respondent
and its affiliates, including, without limitation, to establish a pattern or
practice of violations or the continuation of a pattern or practice of

violations or to calculate the amount of any penalty. This release does not

38
99.

100.

101.

102.

103.

2020-BCFP-0017 Document1 Filed 10/13/2020 Page 39 of 40

preclude or affect any right of the Bureau to determine and ensure
compliance with the Consent Order, or to seek penalties for any violations
of the Consent Order.

This Consent Order is intended to be, and will be construed as, a final
Consent Order issued under section 1053 of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5563,
and expressly does not form, and may not be construed to form, a contract
binding the Bureau or the United States.

Duration of the Order: This Consent Order will terminate 5 years from the

 

Effective Date. The Consent Order will remain effective and enforceable
until such time, except to the extent that any provisions of this Consent
Order have been amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by
the Bureau or its designated agent.

Calculation of time limitations will run from the Effective Date and be
based on calendar days, unless otherwise noted.

Should Respondent seek to transfer or assign all or part of its operations
that are subject to this Consent Order, Respondent must, as a condition of
sale, obtain the written agreement of the transferee or assignee to comply
with all applicable provisions of this Consent Order.

The provisions of this Consent Order will be enforceable by the Bureau.

For any violation of this Consent Order, the Bureau may impose the

39
 

2020-BCFP-0017 Document1 Filed 10/13/2020 Page 40 of 40

maximum amount of civil money penalties allowed under section 1055(c)
of the CFPA, 12 U.S.C. § 5565(c). In connection with any attempt by the
Bureau to enforce this Consent Order in federal district court, the Bureau
may serve Respondent wherever Respondent may be found, and
Respondent may not contest that court’s personal jurisdiction over
Respondent.

104. This Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation contain the
complete agreement between the parties. The parties have made no
promises, representations, or warranties other than what is contained in
this Consent Order and the accompanying Stipulation. This Consent Order
and the accompanying Stipulation supersede any prior oral or written
communications, discussions, or understandings.

105. Nothing in this Consent Order or the accompanying Stipulation may be
construed as allowing the Respondent, its Board, officers, or employees to

violate any law, rule, or regulation.

IT IS SO ORDERED, this [7 th day of October, 2020.

Kehler D Keaaings

Kathleen L. Kraninger
Director
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

40
