Home | Previous Page

r U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

 

SEC Charges Johnson & Johnson With Foreign Bribery

J&J to Pay $70 Million to Settle Cases Brought by SEC and Criminal
Authorities

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
2011-87

Washington, D.C., April 7, 2011 - The Securities and Exchange Commission

today charged Johnson and Johnson (J&J) with violating the Foreign Corrupt

Practices Act (FCPA) by bribing public doctors in several European countries
and paying kickbacks to Iraq to illegally obtain business.

The SEC alleges that since at least 1998, subsidiaries of the New Brunswick,
N.J.-based pharmaceutical, consumer product, and medical device company
paid bribes to public doctors in Greece who selected J&J surgical implants,
public doctors and hospital administrators in Poland who awarded contracts to
J&J, and public doctors in Romania to prescribe J&| pharmaceutical products.
J&J subsidiaries also paid kickbacks to Iraq to obtain 19 contracts under the
United Nations Oil for Food Program.

 

Additional Materials

» SEC Complaint
» Litigation Release No. 21922

 

J&J agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by paying more than $48.6 million in
disgorgement and prejudgment interest. J&J also agreed to pay a $21.4
million fine to settle parallel criminal charges announced by the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ) today. A resolution of a related investigation by
the United Kingdom Serious Fraud Office is anticipated.

“The message in this and the SEC’s other FCPA cases is plain - any
competitive advantage gained through corruption is a mirage,” said Robert
Khuzami, Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement. “J&J chose profit
margins over compliance with the law by acquiring a private company for the
purpose of paying bribes, and using sham contracts, off-shore companies, and
slush funds to cover its tracks.”

Cheryl J. Scarboro, Chief of the SEC Enforcement Division’s Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act Unit, added, “Bribes to public doctors can have a detrimental
effect on the public health care systems that potentially pay more for
products procured through greed and corruption.”

According to the SEC’s complaint filed in federal court in the District of
Columbia, public doctors and administrators in Greece, Poland, and Romania
who ordered or prescribed J&J products were rewarded in a variety of ways,
including with cash and inappropriate travel. J&J subsidiaries, employees and
agents used slush funds, sham civil contracts with doctors, and off-shore
companies in the Isle of Man to carry out the bribery.

Without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, J&J has consented to the
entry of a court order permanently enjoining it from future violations of
Sections 30A, 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; ordering it to pay $38,227,826 in disgorgement and $10,438,490 in
prejudgment interest; and ordering it to comply with certain undertakings
regarding its FCPA compliance program. J&J voluntarily disclosed some of the
violations by its employees and conducted a thorough internal investigation
to determine the scope of the bribery and other violations, including proactive
investigations in more than a dozen countries by both its internal auditors and
outside counsel. J&J’s internal investigation and its ongoing compliance
programs were essential in gathering facts regarding the full extent of J&J’s
FCPA violations.

Kelly G. Kilroy and Tracy L. Price of the Enforcement Division’s FCPA Unit and
Brent S. Mitchell and Reid A. Muoio conducted the SEC’s investigation. The
SEC acknowledges the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice, Fraud
Section; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Serious Fraud Office in the United
Kingdom; and 5th Investigation Department of the Regional Prosecutor's
Office in Radom, Poland. The SEC's investigation is continuing.

HH#H
For more information about this enforcement action, contact:

Cheryl J. Scarboro
Chief, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Unit, Division of Enforcement
202-551-4403
http://www. sec.gov/news/press/2011/2011-87.htm

 

Home | Previous Page Modified: 04/08/2011
