Press Release

SEC Charges Alexion Pharmaceuticals With FCPA Violations

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

2020-149

Washington D.C., July 2, 2020 — The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that Boston-based pharmaceutical company
Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. has agreed to pay more than $21 million to resolve charges that it violated the books and records and internal
accounting controls provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).

According to the SEC’s order, two Alexion subsidiaries made payments to foreign government officials to secure favorable treatment for
Alexion’s primary drug, Soliris. The order finds that, from 2010 to 2015, Alexion Turkey paid Turkish government officials to improperly
influence them to approve patient prescriptions and provide other favorable regulatory treatment for Soliris. The order similarly finds that
from 2011 to 2015, Alexion Russia made improper payments to Russian government health care officials to favorably influence the regulatory
treatment of and the budget allocated to Soliris as well as to increase the number of approved Soliris prescriptions. Alexion Russia and
Alexion Turkey maintained false books and records of these improper payments, which Alexion’s internal accounting controls were not
sufficient to detect or prevent. Further, the order finds that Alexion’s subsidiaries in Brazil and Colombia failed to maintain accurate books
and records, including by creating or directing third parties to create inaccurate financial records concerning payments to patient advocacy
organizations.

“Alexion’s internal accounting controls failed to detect and prevent payments to foreign government officials by its subsidiaries,” said Melissa
Hodgman, an Associate Director in the SEC’s Division of Enforcement. “Companies in frequent contact with foreign officials need to ensure
that their internal controls appropriately address such risks.”

Without admitting or denying the SEC’s findings, Alexion agreed to cease and desist from committing violations of the books and records and
internal accounting controls provisions of the FCPA and pay $14,210,194 in disgorgement, $3,766,337 in prejudgment interest, and a $3.5
million penalty.

The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Christina McGill and Brittany Hamelers. The investigation was supervised by Timothy England and
Melissa Hodgman.

HH

Related Materials

e SEC Order
