 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 1 of9

U.S. Department of Justice

United States Auorney
District of Maryland
Southern Division

 

 

  

David 1. Sebem Alailing Address: Office Location:
Assistant Uuted States Attorney 6500 Cherrywood Lane. Suite 260 GE ane, S° Floor
Davul Salemnsdof. gov Grovubelt, MED 20770-1249 Greenbelt, MD 20770-4249

   
  

30 344-4237
4344-4833
> FRE -344-F506

 

Ro August 14, 2015
iliam B. Jacobson, Esq.

Jonathan E. Lopez, Esq. FILED ENTERED
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP meee LOGGED RECENVED
Orrick Building at Columbia Center
1152 15th Street, NW Washineton, D.C. 20005-1706 AUG 31 2015 |

Re: United States v. Vadim Mikerin, cena’ S!ossrmcr count

Criminal No. TDC-14-0529
“ BY DEPUTY

Dear Messrs. Lopez and Jacobson:

This letter, together with the Sealed Supplement, confirms the plea agreenrent which has
been offered to the Defendant by the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Maryland
and the Fraud Section, Criminal Division, United States Department of Justice (“this Office”). If
the Defendant accepts this offer, please have him execute it in the spaces provided below. If this
offer has not been accepted by August 26, 2015, it will be deemed withdrawn. The terms of the
agreernent are as follows:

  

 

Offense of Conviction

1, The Defendant agrees to waive indictment and plead guilty to a one-count
Superseding Information, charging him with Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering, in
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371. The Defendant admits that he is, in fact, guilty of this offense and
will so advise the Court.

Elements of the Offense

2, The elements of the offense to which the Defendant has agreed to plead guilty,
and which this Office would prove if the case went to trial, are as follows:

a. the Defendant and at least one other person entered an unlawful
agreement;

b. the Defendant knowingly and willfully became a member of the
conspiracy;

 
 

 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 2 of 9

c. at least one of the members of the conspiracy knowingly committed at
least one overt act; and

d. the overt act was committed to further some objective of the conspiracy.
Penalties
3. The maximum sentence provided by statute for the offense to which the

Defendant is pleading guilty is imprisonment for a term of not more than five years, supervised
release of up to three years, and a fine of not more than $250,000 or twice the gain or loss
associated with the offense. In addition, the Defendant must pay $100 as a special assessment
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3013, which will be due and should be paid at or before the time of
sentencing. This Court may also order him to make restitution pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3663,

3663A, and 3664. Ifa fine or restitution is imposed, it shall be payable immediately, unless,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3572(d), the Court orders otherwise.' The Defendant understands that if
he serves a term of imprisonment, is released on supervised release, and then violates the
conditions of his supervised release, his supervised release could be revoked -- even on the last
day of the term -- and the Defendant could be returned to custody to serve another period of
incarceration and a new term of supervised release. The Defendant understands that the Bureau
of Prisons has sole discretion in designating the institution at which the Defendant will serve any
term of imprisonment imposed.

Waiver of Rights

4. The Defendant understands that by entering into this agreement, he surrenders
_certain rights as outlined below:

a. If the Defendant had persisted in his plea of not guilty, he would have had
the right to a speedy jury trial with the close assistance of competent counsel. That trial could be
conducted by a judge, without a jury, if the Defendant, this Office, and the Court all agreed.

b. If the Defendant elected a jury trial, the jury would be composed of twelve
individuals selected from the community. Counsel and the Defendant would have the
opportunity to challenge prospective jurors who demonstrated bias or who were otherwise
unqualified, and would have the opportunity to strike a certain number of jurors peremptorily.
All twelve jurors would have to agree unanimously before the Defendant could be found guilty
of any count. The jury would be instructed that the Defendant was presumed to be innocent, and
that presumption could be overcome only by proof beyond a reasonable doubt.

c. If the Defendant went to trial, the government would have the burden of
proving the Defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. The Defendant would have the right to

‘ Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3612, if the Court imposes a fine in excess of $2,500 that remains
unpaid 15 days after it is imposed, the Defendant shall be charged interest on that fine, unless the
Court modifies the interest payment in accordance with 18 U.S.C. § 3612(f)(3).

 
Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 3 of 9

confront and cross-examine the government’s witnesses. The Defendant would not have to
present any defense witnesses or evidence whatsoever. If the Defendant wanted to call witnesses
in his defense, however, he would have the subpoena power of the Court to compel the witnesses
to attend.

d. The Defendant would have the right to testify in his own defense if he so
chose, and he would have the right to refuse to testify. If he chose not to testify, the Court would
instruct the jury that they could not draw any adverse inference from his decision not to testify.

e. If the Defendant were found guilty after a trial, he would have the right to
appeal the verdict and the Court’s pretrial and trial decisions on the admissibility of evidence to
see if any errors were committed which would require a new trial or dismissal of the charges
against him. By pleading guilty, the Defendant knowingly gives up the right to appeal the
verdict and the Court’s decisions.

f. By pleading guilty, the Defendant will be giving up all of these rights,
except the right, under the limited circumstances set forth in the “Waiver of Appeal” paragraph
below, to appeal the sentence. By pleading guilty, the Defendant understands that he may have
to answer the Court’s questions both about the rights he is giving up and about the facts of his
case. Any statements the Defendant makes during such a hearing would not be admissible
against him during a trial except in a criminal proceeding for perjury or false statement.

g. If the Court accepts the Defendant’s plea of guilty, there will be no further
trial or proceeding of any kind, and the Court will find him guilty.

h. By pleading guilty, the Defendant will also be giving up certain valuable
civil rights and may be subject to deportation or other loss of immigration status. The Defendant
recognizes that if he is not a citizen of the United States, pleading guilty may have consequences
with respect to his immigration status. Under federal law, conviction for a broad range of crimes
can lead to adverse immigration consequences, including automatic removal from the United
States. Removal and other immigration consequences are the subject of a separate proceeding,
however, and the Defendant understands that no one, including his attorney or the Court, can
predict with certainty the effect of a conviction on immigration status. The Defendant
nevertheless affirms that he wants to plead guilty regardless of any potential immigration
consequences,

Advisory Sentencing Guidelines Apply

5. The Defendant understands that the Court will determine a sentencing guidelines
range for this case (henceforth the “advisory guidelines range”) pursuant to the Sentencing
Reform Act of 1984 at 18 U.S.C. §§ 3551-3742 (excepting 18 U.S.C. §§ 3553(b)(1) and 3742(e))
and 28 U.S.C. §§ 991 through 998. The Defendant further understands that the Court will
impose a sentence pursuant to the Sentencing Reform Act, as excised, and must take into account
the advisory guidelines range in establishing a reasonable sentence.

 

 
Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 4 of 9

Factual and Advisory Guidelines Stipulation

6. This Office and the Defendant understand, agree and stipulate to the Statement of
Facts set forth in Attachment A hereto, which this Office would prove beyond a reasonable

doubt, and set forth the following agreed-upon and disputed applicable sentencing guidelines
factors:

a. The base offense level is 8, pursuant to U.S.S.G. §§ 2X1.1(a) and
281.1(a)(2).

b. The offense level is increased by 16 levels, pursuant to U.S.S.G.
§ 2B1.1(b)(1)Q, because the amount involved was more than $1 million but less than $2.5
million.

c. A 2-level increase applies because the defendant was convicted of an
offense under 18 U.S.C. § 1956, pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 2S1.1(b)(2)(B).

d. A 2-level increase applies because the offense involved sophisticated
laundering, pursuant to U.S.S.G. § 2S1.1(b)(3).

e. The Government believes an additional 4 level increase applies under
USS.G. § 3B1.1(a), because the defendant was an organizer and leader of a criminal activity
that involved five or more participants or was otherwise extensive. The Defendant reserves the
Tight to oppose such an adjustment.

f. The adjusted offense level is thus between 32 (the Government’s position)
and 28 (the Defendant’s position).

g. This Office does not oppose a 2 level reduction in the Defendant’s
adjusted offense level, based upon the Defendant's recognition and affirmative acceptance of
personal responsibility for his criminal conduct. This Office agrees to make a motion pursuant to
U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1(b) for an additional 1 level decrease in recognition of the Defendant's timely
notification of his intention to plead guilty. This Office may oppose any adjustment for
acceptance of responsibility if the Defendant (a) fails to admit each and every item in the factual
stipulation; (b) denies involvement in the offense; (c)} gives conflicting statements about his
involvement in the offense; (d) is untruthful with the Court, this Office, or the United States
Probation Office; (e) obstructs or attempts to obstruct justice prior to sentencing; (f) engages in
any criminal conduct between the date of this agreement and the date of sentencing; or (g)
attempts to withdraw his plea of guilty. The final offense level thus will be 29, 28, 27 or 25.

2 In the event that the Defendant is sentenced under the proposed amendments to the Sentencing
Guidelines, the parties agree that the base offense level still is increased by 16 levels pursuant to
US.S.G, § 2B1.1(b)(1)(I), because the actual and intended loss reasonably foreseeable to, and
purposefully sought by, the Defendant and within the scope of his agreement to jointly undertake
the offense exceeded $1.5 million but did not exceed $3.5 million.

 
 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 5 of 9

7. The Defendant understands that there is no agreement as to his criminal history or
criminal history category, and that his criminal history could alter his offense level if he is a
career offender or if the instant offense was a part of a pattern of criminal conduct from which he
derived a substantial portion of his income.

8. This Office and the Defendant agree that with respect to the calculation of the
advisory guidelines range, with the exception of establishing the offense level increase for the
value of the benefit received or tobe received at sentencing, no other offense characteristics,
sentencing guidelines factors, potential departures or adjustments set forth in the United States
Sentencing Guidelines will be raised or are in dispute. If the Defendant intends to argue for any
factor that could take the sentence outside of the advisory guidelines range, he will notify the
Court, the United States Probation Officer and government counsel at least 14 days in advance of
sentencing of the facts or issues he intends to raise.

Obligations of this Office

9. At the time of sentencing, this Office will recommend a reasonable sentence and
will dismiss any open counts,

10. The parties reserve the right to bring to the Court’s attention at the time of
sentencing, and the Court will be entitled to consider, all relevant information concerning the
Defendant’s background, character and conduct.

Forfeiture

11. The Defendant agrees that as part of his acceptance of responsibility and pursuant

to 18 U.S.C. § 981(a)(1)(C) and 28 U.S.C. § 2461, he will consent to the entry of a forfeiture |

money judgment in the amount of $2,126,622.36 in United States currency (the “Forfeiture
Money Judgment”). The Defendant acknowledges that the $2,126,622.36 is subject to forfeiture
as property, real or personal, that was involved in, or was property traceable to property,
involved in a money laundering offense within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. §§ 982(a)(1) and 1956.
On October 29, 2014, the United States seized a total of $127,834.72 from Defendant’s Citibank
account ending in 2223 and Defendant’s Citibank account ending in 3854. Defendant consents
to the forfeiture of this amount as part of the overall money judgment and the United States
agrees to deduct this amount from the total amount of any forfeiture ordered by the court.

12. The Defendant agrees to consent to the entry of an order of forfeiture for the
Forfeiture Money Judgment and waives the requirements of Rules 32.2 and 43(a) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure regarding notice of the forfeiture in the charging instrument,
announcement of the forfeiture at sentencing, and incorporation of the forfeiture in the judgment.
The Defendant understands that the forfeiture of the Forfeiture Money Judgment is part of the
sentence that may be imposed in this case and waives any failure by the court to advise him of
this pursuant to Rule 11 (b)(1)(1) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure at the guilty plea
proceeding.

 
 

   

 
   

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 6 of 9

Assisting the Government with Regard to the Forfeiture

13. The Defendant agrees to assist fully in the forfeiture of the foregoing assets. The
Defendant agrees to disclose all of his assets and sources of income to the United States, and to
take all steps necessary to pass clear title to the forfeited assets to the United States, including but
not limited to executing any and all documents necessary to transfer such title, assisting in
bringing any assets located outside of the United States within the jurisdiction of the United
States, and taking whatever steps are necessary to ensure that assets subject to forfeiture are not
sold, disbursed, wasted, hidden or otherwise made unavailable for forfeiture. The Defendant
further agrees that he will not assist any third party in asserting a claim to the forfeited assets in
an ancillary proceeding and that he will testify truthfully in any such proceeding.

Waiver of Further Review of Forfeiture

14. The Defendant agrees to waive all constitutional, legal and equitable challenges
(including direct appeal, habeas corpus, or any other means) to any forfeiture carried out in
accordance with this Plea Agreement on any grounds, including that the forfeiture constitutes an
excessive fine or punishment or otherwise violates the Eighth Amendment. The Defendant also
agrees not to challenge or seek review of any civil or administrative forfeiture of any property
subject to forfeiture under this agreement, and will not assist any third party with regard to such
challenge or review or with regard to the filing of a petition for remission of forfeiture.

Civil and Administrative Penalties

15. | The Defendant acknowledges that no representations have been made to him with
respect to any civil or administrative consequences that may result from this plea of guilty
because such matters are solely within the province and discretion of the specific administrative
or governmental entity involved. Further, the Defendant understands that this agreement does
not resolve any civil tax liability that he may have, and that this agreement is with the United
States Attorney’s Office and the Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section, not
with the Intemal Revenue Service. The Defendant acknowledges that the Internal Revenue
Service is not a party to this agreement and remains free to pursue any and all lawful remedies it
may have.

Waiver of Appeal

16. In exchange for the concessions made by this Office and the Defendant in this
plea agreement, this Office and the Defendant waive their rights to appeal as follows:

a. The Defendant knowingly waives all right, except his right to effective
assistance of counsel, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1291 or otherwise, to appeal the Defendant’s
conviction;

b. The Defendant and this Office knowingly waive all right, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. § 3742 or otherwise, to appeal whatever sentence is imposed (including the right to
appeal any issues that relate to the establishment of the advisory guidelines range, the
 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 7 of 9

determination of the defendant’s criminal history, the weighing of the sentencing factors, and the
decision whether to impose and the calculation of any term of imprisonment, fine, order of
forfeiture, order of restitution, and term or condition of supervised release), except as follows:
(i) the Defendant reserves the right to appeal any term of imprisonment to the extent that it
_ exceeds any sentence within the advisory guidelines resulting from an adjusted base offense
level 29, and (ii) this Office reserves the right to appeal any term of imprisonment to the extent
‘that it is below any sentence within the advisory guidelines range resulting from an adjusted base
offense level 25,

c. Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent the Defendant or
this Office from invoking the provisions of Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 35(a), or from
appealing from any decision thereunder, should a sentence be imposed that resulted from
arithmetical, technical, or other clear error.

d. The Defendant waives any and all rights under the Freedom of
Information Act relating to the investigation and prosecution of the above-captioned matter and
agrees not to file any request for documents from this Office or any investigating agency.

Obstruction or Other Violations of Law

17. The Defendant agrees that he will not commit any offense in violation of federal,
state or local law between the date of this agreement and his sentencing in this case. In the event
that the Defendant (i) engages in conduct after the date of this agreement which would justify a
finding of obstruction of justice under U.S.S.G. § 3CI.1, or (ii) fails to accept personal
responsibility for his conduct by failing to acknowledge his guilt to the probation officer who
prepares the Presentence Report, or (iii) commits any offense in violation of federal, state or
local law, then this Office will be relieved of its obligations to the Defendant as reflected in this
agreement, Specifically, this Office will be free to argue sentencing guidelines factors other than
those stipulated in this agreement, and it will also be free to make sentencing recommendations
other than those set out in this agreement. As with any alleged breach of this agreement, this
Office will bear the burden of convincing the Court of the Defendant’s obstructive or unlawful
behavior and/or failure to acknowledge personal responsibility by a preponderance of the
evidence. The Defendant acknowledges that he may not withdraw his guilty plea because this
Office is relieved of its obligations under the agreement pursuant to this paragraph.

Court Not a Party

18. The Defendant expressly understands that the Court is not a party to this
agreement. In the federal system, the sentence to be imposed is within the sole discretion of the
Court. In particular, the Defendant understands that neither the United States Probation Office
nor the Court is bound by the stipulation set forth above, and that the Court will, with the aid of
the Presentence Report, determine the facts relevant to sentencing. The Defendant understands
that the Court cannot rely exclusively upon the stipulation in ascertaining the factors relevant to
the determination of sentence. Rather, in determining the factual basis for the sentence, the
Court will consider the stipulation, together with the results of the presentence investigation, and
any other relevant information. The Defendant understands that the Court is under no obligation

 
 

 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 8 of 9

to accept this Office’s recommendations, and the Court has the power to impose a sentence up to
and including the statutory maximum stated above. The Defendant understands that if the Court
ascertains factors different from those contained in the stipulation set forth above, or if the Court
should impose any sentence up to the maximum established hy statute, the Defendant cannot, for
that reason alone, withdraw his guilty plea. and will remain bound to fulfill all of his obligations
under this agreement. The Defendant understands that neither the prosecutor, his counsel, nor
the Court can make a binding prediction, promise, or representation as to what guidelines range
or sentence the Defendant will receive. The Defendant agrees that no one has made such a
binding prediction or promise.

Entire Agreement

19. This agreement supersedes any prior understandings, promises, or conditions
between this Office and the Defendant and constitutes the complete plea agreement in this case.
The Defendant acknowledges that there are no other agreements, promises, undertakings ot
understandings between the Defendant and this Office other than those set forth in this
agreement and none will be entered into unless in writing and signed by all parties.

If the Defendant fully accepts each and every term and condition of this letter,
please sign and have the Defendant sign the original and return it to me promptly.

Very truly yours,

ANDREW WEISSMANN ROD J. ROSENSTEIN
Chief, Fraud Section United Siates Attorney
Criminal Division District of Maryland

Department of Justice

ox PscthBabn foo» Henf) Seal

Christopher Cestaro , David 1. Salem
Ephraim Wernick Michael T, Packard
Derek Ettinger Assistant United States Attorneys.

Trial Attorneys

I have read this agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with my attorney. I
understand it, and [ voluntarily agree to it. Specifically, [ have reviewed the Factual and
Advisory Guidelines Stipulation with my attorney, and [ do not wish to,eBange any part afit. 1
am completely satisfied with the representation of my attorney.

Mapas! 2S 2015S

Date

  

 

 
 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103 Filed 08/31/15 Page 9 of 9

We are Vadim Mikerin’s attomeys. We have carefully reviewed every part of this
agreement with him. He advises me that he unde ands and accepts its terms. To our
knowledge, his decision to enter into this agreement i dn

Vas)it

Date

4 2< | tw
Date Jonathan E. Lopez, Esq.

   

 
 

 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103-1 Filed 08/31/15 Page 1 of 4

ATTACHMENT A:
STIPULATED FACTS — UNITED STATES v. VADIM MIKERIN

If this matter had proceeded to trial, the government would have proven the following
facts beyond a reasonable doubt. The parties agree that the following facts do not encompass all
of the facts that would have been proven had this matter proceeded to trial.

VADIM MIKERIN (“MIKERIN”), a national of the Russian Federation, was a
Director of the Pan American Department of JSC Techsnabexport (“TENEX”) from at least in or
about 2004 through in or about 2010, and was the President of TENAM Corporation
(“TENAM”) from in or about October 2010 through in or about October 2014. From in or about
December 2011 through in or about October 2014, MIKERIN was a resident of Maryland.

At all relevant times prior to 2007, TENEX was a wholly owned subsidiary of
Rosimushchestvo, the Russian Federation’s agency responsible for state property management.
At all relevant times beginning in 2007, TENEX was a wholly owned subsidiary of JSC
Atomenergoprom, which, in turn, was a wholly owned subsidiary of The State Atomic Energy
Corporation ROSATOM (“ROSATOM”). TENEX operated as the sole supplier and exporter
of Russian Federation uranium and uranium enrichment services to nuclear power companies
worldwide. In or about October 2010, TENEX established TENAM as its wholly owned
subsidiary and official representative in the United States. Under the laws of the United States,
TENEX and TENAM were each an “agency” and “instrumentality” of a foreign government,
as those terms are used in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), Title 15, United States
Code, Sections 78dd-1(f\(1) and 78dd-2(h)(2). Thus, at all relevant times, MIKERIN was a
“foreign official,” as that term is used.in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Sections
78dd-1(f)(1) and 78dd-2(h)(2).

“Transportation Corporation A” was a United States company, headquartered in
Maryland, which provided logistical support services for the transportation of nuclear materials
to customers in the United States and to foreign customers, including TENEX. At all relevant
times, Transportation Corporation A was a “domestic concern,” as that term is used in the FCPA,
Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1)(B).

“Cylinder Corporation One” was a United States company, headquartered in Ohio, which
manufactured tanks and vessels for the oil and gas, nuclear, and marine markets. Cylinder
Corporation One contracted with TENEX to supply storage and transportation cylinders. In or
about September 2012, Cylinder Corporation One was acquired by another company
headquartered in Ohio (“Parent Corporation A”). At all relevant times, Cylinder Corporation
One was a “domestic concern,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code,
Section 78dd-2(h)(1)(B). At all relevant times, Parent Corporation A was an “issuer,” as that
term is used in the FCPA, Title 15 United States Code, Section 78dd-1.

“Co-Conspirator 1” was a citizen of the United States and a resident of Maryland. Co-
Conspirator 1 was an owner and executive of Transportation Corporation A from in or about
1998 through in or about December 2009. Co-Conspirator | owned and controlled “Consulting
Corporation One,” which was based in Maryland. Co-Conspirator 1, through Consulting

10
 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103-1 Filed 08/31/15 Page 2 of 4

 

Corporation One, acted as a consultant to Transportation Corporation A from in or about January
2010 through his death in August 2011, and as a consultant to Cylinder Corporation One from in
or about August 2010 through his death in August 2011. Thus, at all relevant times, Co-
Conspirator 1 was a “domestic concern,” and an officer, employee and agent of a “domestic
concern,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1).

“Co-Conspirator 2” was a citizen of the United States and resident of Maryland. Co-
Conspirator 2 was an owner and executive of Transportation Corporation A from in or about
August 1998 through in or about October 2014. Co-Conspirator 2 was the co-President of
Transportation Corporation A from in or about January 2010 through in or about October 2014.
Thus, at all relevant times, Co-Conspirator 2 was a “domestic concern” and an officer, employee
and agent of a “domestic concern,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United States
Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1).

“Co-Conspirator 3” was a citizen of the United States and resident of New Jersey, and
was the owner and sole employee of “Consulting Corporation Two,” which was based in New
Jersey. Thus, at all relevant times, Co-Conspirator 3 was a “domestic concern” and an officer,
employee and agent of a “domestic concern,” as that term is used in the FCPA, Title 15, United
States Code, Section 78dd-2(h)(1).

“Executive A” was a citizen of the United States, and was an officer of Cylinder
Corporation One.

“Executive B” was a citizen of the United States, and was an employee of Transportation
Corporation A.

Between at least in or about 2004 and in or about October 2014, in the District of
Maryland and elsewhere, Co-Conspirator 1, Co-Conspirator 2, and others, knowingly, willfully,
and corruptly conspired to violate the FCPA, and did violate the FCPA, in violation of 15
U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1 and 78dd-2. Specifically, Co-Conspirator 1, Co-Conspirator-2, and others
knowingly, willfully, and corruptly agreed to make payments, and caused Transportation
Corporation A to make payments, for the future benefit of MIKERIN and, before his death,
Co-Conspirator 1, in order to influence MIKERIN and to secure an improper business
advantage for Transportation Corporation A; and Co-Conspirator 1 and others knowingly,
willfully, and corruptly agreed to make payments, and caused Cylinder Corporation One and
Parent Corporation A to make payments, for the future benefit of MIKERIN and, before his
death, Co-Conspirator 1, in order to influence MIKERIN and to secure an improper business
advantage for Cylinder Corporation One (the “FCPA Violations”). According to MIKERIN,
the payments were to be used for future business purposes.

Between in or around 2004 through in or around October 2014, in the District of
Maryland and elsewhere, MIKERIN knowingly conspired with others to commit offenses
against the United States, namely to commit international promotion money laundering, in
violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1956(a)(2)(A), all in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371. Specifically,
beginning in or about 2004 and continuing through in or about October 2014, in the District of
Maryland and elsewhere, MIKERIN did willfully and knowingly conspire with others,

 
 

 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103-1 Filed 08/31/15 Page 3 of 4

including Co-Conspirator 1, Co-Conspirator 2, and Co-Conspirator 3, and others to transport,
transmit, and transfer monetary instruments and funds from a place in the United States to a
place outside the United States with the intent to promote the carrying on of specified unlawful
activity, to wit, the FCPA Violations, in violation of 15 U.S.C. §§ 78dd-1 and 78dd-2 (“the
money laundering conspiracy”).

In furtherance of the underlying FCPA violations, Co-Conspirator |, Co-Conspirator 2,
and others caused Transportation Corporation A and Cylinder Corporation One to enter into
contracts with TENEX, and TENEX deposited payments under the contracts into the bank
accounts of Transportation Corporation A and Cylinder Corporation One.

In furtherance of the money laundering conspiracy, MIKERIN and his co-conspirators
caused wire payments to be made from bank accounts located in the United States into shell
company bank accounts located in Latvia, Cyprus, and Switzerland, used the code words “lucky
figure,” “LF,” “cake,” and “remuneration” to describe the payments, and communicated in
person and via electronic mail (“email”) about the payments. For example:

e MIKERIN, Co-Conspirator 1, Co-Conspirator 2, and others caused Transportation
Corporation A to make payments from a bank account in Maryland into shell
company bank accounts in Latvia, Cyprus, and Switzerland. Concerning one such
transaction, on or about March 27, 2012, MIKERIN sent an email to Co-Conspirator
2 and Executive B stating in relevant part: “a channel for ‘lucky figures’ process has
been checked and confirmed (no changes), so you will get an invoice for the amount
48,089.30 tomorrow. Would you please to confirm that it’ll be done before the end of
the month of Q1 or early next week.” On or about March 29, 2012, Transportation
Corporation A made a wire transfer in the amount of $48,089.30 from Transportation
Corporation A’s bank account located in Maryland into a shell company bank account
located in Latvia.

e With MIKERIN’s assistance, Co-Conspirator 3 entered into consulting agreements
with both Cylinder Corporation One and a shell company. Through these consulting
agreements Co-Conspirator 3 received payments from Cylinder Corporation One and
then passed the payment to an offshore bank account based on information as to
location and timing that MIKERIN provided. Conceming one such transaction, on
or about November 20, 2012, Co-Conspirator 3 deposited a $91,500 payment from
Cylinder Corporation One’s bank account into Consulting Corporation Two’s bank
account located in the United States. On or about December 7, 2012, Co-Conspirator
3 wired $60,000 from Consulting Corporation Two’s bank account located in the
United States into a shell company bank account located in Latvia, based on
information as to location and timing that MIKERIN provided.

e MIKERIN, Co-conspirator |, and others caused Consulting Corporation One to
make payments into a shell company bank account located in Latvia. Conceming one
such transaction, on or about March 23, 2011, Co-Conspirator | received a $97,500
payment from Cylinder Corporation One. On or about March 28, 2011, Co-
Conspirator | wired $85,800 from Consulting Corporation One’s bank account

12
 

 

Case 8:14-cr-00529-TDC Document 103-1 Filed 08/31/15 Page 4 of 4

located in the United States into a shell company bank account located in Latvia,
based on information as to location and timing that MIKERIN provided.

© On or about August 29, 2013, MIKERIN sent an email to Executive A that stated in
relevant part: “just wanted to kindly ask you to synch with [Co-Conspirator 2] in
order to settle our 30,9k matter asap. They know the ropes and all we need is to
proceed and get a final result.” Thereafter, Parent Corporation A issued a check in
the amount of $30,900 that was deposited into Transportation Corporation A’s bank
account located in Maryland. Weeks later Transportation Corporation A sent a wire
transfer from its bank account located in Maryland into a shell company bank
account located in Switzerland, which included Parent Corporation A’s payment,
minus a fee, in addition to a payment Transportation Corporation A made, all based
on information as to location and timing that MIKERIN provided.

From in or about 2004 through in or about October 2014, MIKERIN did willfully and
knowingly conspire with Co-Conspirator 1, Co-Conspirator 2, Co-Conspirator 3, and others to
transport, transmit, and transfer approximately $2,126,622.36 from the United States to places
outside the United States with the intent to promote the carrying on of the FCPA Violations.

T have read this statement of Stipulated Facts and carefully reviewed it with my attorneys.
J acknowledge that it is true and correct.

Ju sh 2S 20/—

Date , im Mikerin
3 | 7 [2 Ors
Date William B. Jacobson, Esq.

Jonathan E, Lopez, Esq.
